src/docs/null-safety.md, before:

---
title: Null safety in Flutter
description: Find out how to use non-nullable types in your Flutter code.
---

Null safety is available in the Flutter beta channel,
starting with build `1.24.0-10.2.pre`.
You can now migrate your Flutter packages to use non-nullable types like this:

<?code-excerpt "../null_safety_examples/basics/lib/main.dart (MyApp)"?>
```dart
class MyApp extends StatelessWidget {
  final int anInt = 3; // Cannot be null.
  final int? aNullableInt = null; // Can be null.

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return MaterialApp(
      title: 'Nullable Fields Demo',
      home: Scaffold(
        appBar: AppBar(
          title: Text('Nullable Fields Demo'),
        ),
        body: Center(
          child: Column(
            children: [
              Text('anInt is $anInt.'),
              Text('aNullableInt is $aNullableInt.'),
            ],
          ),
        ),
      ),
    );
  }
}
```

To learn about null safety,
read these pages:

* [Sound null safety][]:
  The null safety homepage.
  Has basic information, with links to everything else you might need.
* [Understanding null safety][]:
  A deep dive into null safety, written by Dart engineer Bob Nystrom.

When you're ready to start migrating your packages to null safety,
check out these pages:

* [Migrating to null safety][]:
  Instructions for converting your packages to null safety.
* [Unsound null safety][]:
  Conceptual and practical information about mixed-mode programs,
  in which only some libraries are null safe.
* [FAQ][]:
  Questions that have come up during migration to null safety.

[Migrating to null safety]: {{site.dart-site}}/null-safety/migration-guide
[FAQ]: {{site.dart-site}}/null-safety/faq
[Sound null safety]: {{site.dart-site}}/null-safety
[Understanding null safety]: {{site.dart-site}}/null-safety/understanding-null-safety
[Unsound null safety]: {{site.dart-site}}/null-safety/unsound-null-safety

Commit message:

Known null safety issues (#5284)
* Update null-safety.md

* Update src/docs/null-safety.md

* Update src/docs/null-safety.md

* Update src/docs/null-safety.md

* Update src/docs/null-safety.md

Co-authored-by: Jacob MacDonald <jakemac@google.com>

Co-authored-by: Shams Zakhour (ignore Sfshaza) <44418985+sfshaza2@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Jacob MacDonald <jakemac@google.com>

src/docs/null-safety.md, after:

---
title: Null safety in Flutter
description: Find out how to use non-nullable types in your Flutter code.
---

Null safety is available in the Flutter beta channel,
starting with build `1.24.0-10.2.pre`.
You can now migrate your Flutter packages to use non-nullable types like this:

<?code-excerpt "../null_safety_examples/basics/lib/main.dart (MyApp)"?>
```dart
class MyApp extends StatelessWidget {
  final int anInt = 3; // Cannot be null.
  final int? aNullableInt = null; // Can be null.

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return MaterialApp(
      title: 'Nullable Fields Demo',
      home: Scaffold(
        appBar: AppBar(
          title: Text('Nullable Fields Demo'),
        ),
        body: Center(
          child: Column(
            children: [
              Text('anInt is $anInt.'),
              Text('aNullableInt is $aNullableInt.'),
            ],
          ),
        ),
      ),
    );
  }
}
```

## Resources

To learn about null safety,
read these pages:

* [Sound null safety][]:
  The null safety homepage.
  Has basic information, with links to everything else you might need.
* [Understanding null safety][]:
  A deep dive into null safety, written by Dart engineer Bob Nystrom.

When you're ready to start migrating your packages to null safety,
check out these pages:

* [Migrating to null safety][]:
  Instructions for converting your packages to null safety.
* [Unsound null safety][]:
  Conceptual and practical information about mixed-mode programs,
  in which only some libraries are null safe.
* [FAQ][]:
  Questions that have come up during migration to null safety.
  
## Known issues

Not all parts of the Flutter SDK support null safety yet,
as some parts still need additional work to
[migrate to null safety]({{site.dart-site}}/null-safety/migration-guide).

We're currently aware of the following issues:

  * Migration of the pub.dev packages owned by the Flutter team
    is in progress. See pub.dev for
    [the current list]({{site.pub}}/packages?q=publisher%3Aflutter.dev&null-safe=1).

  * Integration testing with
    [`flutter_driver`](/docs/cookbook/testing/integration/introduction)
    currently does not support null safety.
    
  * Depending on `flutter_driver` will limit your ability to pick up some
    already migrated dependencies such as `args`, `archive`, and `crypto`.

[Migrating to null safety]: {{site.dart-site}}/null-safety/migration-guide
[FAQ]: {{site.dart-site}}/null-safety/faq
[Sound null safety]: {{site.dart-site}}/null-safety
[Understanding null safety]: {{site.dart-site}}/null-safety/understanding-null-safety
[Unsound null safety]: {{site.dart-site}}/null-safety/unsound-null-safety
