---
title: Flutter crash reporting
description: >-
  How Google uses crash reporting, what is collected, and how to opt out.
showBreadcrumbs: false
---

If you have not opted-out of Flutter's analytics and crash reporting,
when a `flutter` command crashes,
it attempts to send a crash report to Google in order to
help Google contribute improvements to Flutter over time.
A crash report might contain the following information:

* The name and version of your local operating system.
* The version of Flutter used to run the command.
* The runtime type of the error, for example
  `StateError` or `NoSuchMethodError`.
* The stack trace generated by the crash, which contains references to
  the Flutter CLI's own code and contains no references to
  your application code.
* A client ID: a constant and unique number generated for
  the computer where Flutter is installed.
  It helps us deduplicate multiple identical crash
  reports coming from the same computer.
  It also helps us verify if a fix works as intended after
  you upgrade to the next version of Flutter.

Google handles all data reported by this tool in accordance with the
[Google Privacy Policy][].

You may review the recently reported data in the
`.dart-tool/dart-flutter-telemetry.log` file.
On macOS or Linux, this log is located in the home directory (`~/`).
On Windows, this log is located in the Roaming AppData directory (`%APPDATA%`).

## Disabling analytics reporting

To opt out of anonymous crash reporting and feature
usage statistics, run the following command:

```console
$ flutter --disable-analytics
```

If you opt out of analytics, Flutter sends an opt-out event.
This Flutter installation neither sends nor stores any further information.

To opt into analytics, run the following command:

```console
$ flutter --enable-analytics
```

To display the current setting, run the following command:

```console
$ flutter config
```

[Google Privacy Policy]: https://policies.google.com/privacy
