src/resources/bootstrap-into-dart.md, before:

---
title: Bootstrap into Dart
description: How to get started with the Dart programming language.
---

New to the [Dart][] language?
We compiled our favorite resources to
help you quickly learn Dart.
Many people have reported that
[Dart is easy and fun to learn][].
We hope these resources make Dart easy for
you to learn, too.

[Language tour][]
: Your best introduction to the Dart language.
  Learn about Dart's features such as _strong types_,
  _closures_, _libraries_, _lexical scoping_,
  _top-level functions_, _named parameters_,
  _async / await_, and lots more.

[Library tour][]
: A good overview of Dart's powerful core libraries.
  Learn about Dart's support for collections, async,
  math, numbers, strings, JSON, and more.

[Intro to Dart for Java Developers][] codelab
: Use your Java knowledge to get up and running quickly with Dart.
  Learn about classes, constructors, parameters,
  and interfaces with examples from the Java Tutorial.

[Effective Dart][]
: Guides for style, authoring documentation, usage,
  and more.

[Asynchronous programming: futures, async, await][] codelab
: Learn how to write asynchronous code using
  futures and the `async` and `await` keywords.

[Asynchronous programming: streams][]
: Learn how to use streams to perform asynchronous
  I/O and event handling.

Want to learn more and perhaps contribute?
Check out the [Dart community][].



[Asynchronous programming: futures, async, await]: {{site.dart-site}}/codelabs/async-await
[Asynchronous programming: streams]: {{site.dart-site}}/tutorials/language/streams
[Dart]: {{site.dart-site}}
[Dart community]: {{site.dart-site}}/community
[Dart is easy and fun to learn]: {{site.url}}/resources/faq#why-did-flutter-choose-to-use-dart
[Effective Dart]: {{site.dart-site}}/guides/language/effective-dart
[`File`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/dart-io/File-class.html
[Intro to Dart for Java Developers]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/from-java-to-dart
[Language tour]: {{site.dart-site}}/guides/language/language-tour
[Library tour]: {{site.dart-site}}/guides/libraries/library-tour

Commit message:

Link to js-to-dart article from Bootstrap into Dart page (#7227)

src/resources/bootstrap-into-dart.md, after:

---
title: Bootstrap into Dart
description: How to get started with the Dart programming language.
---

New to the [Dart][] language?
We compiled our favorite resources to
help you quickly learn Dart.
Many people have reported that
[Dart is easy and fun to learn][].
We hope these resources make Dart easy for
you to learn, too.

[Language tour][]
: Your best introduction to the Dart language.
  Learn about Dart's features such as _strong types_,
  _closures_, _libraries_, _lexical scoping_,
  _top-level functions_, _named parameters_,
  _async / await_, and lots more.

[Library tour][]
: A good overview of Dart's powerful core libraries.
  Learn about Dart's support for collections, async,
  math, numbers, strings, JSON, and more.

[Learning Dart as a JavaScript developer][]
: Use your JavaScript knowledge to get up and running quickly with Dart.
  Learn about the key similarities and differences between the languages
  as well as concepts and conventions not present in vanilla JavaScript.

[Intro to Dart for Java Developers][] codelab
: Use your Java knowledge to get up and running quickly with Dart.
  Learn about classes, constructors, parameters,
  and interfaces with examples from the Java Tutorial.

[Effective Dart][]
: Guides for style, authoring documentation, usage,
  and more.

[Asynchronous programming: futures, async, await][] codelab
: Learn how to write asynchronous code using
  futures and the `async` and `await` keywords.

[Asynchronous programming: streams][]
: Learn how to use streams to perform asynchronous
  I/O and event handling.

Want to learn more and perhaps contribute?
Check out the [Dart community][].



[Asynchronous programming: futures, async, await]: {{site.dart-site}}/codelabs/async-await
[Asynchronous programming: streams]: {{site.dart-site}}/tutorials/language/streams
[Dart]: {{site.dart-site}}
[Dart community]: {{site.dart-site}}/community
[Dart is easy and fun to learn]: {{site.url}}/resources/faq#why-did-flutter-choose-to-use-dart
[Effective Dart]: {{site.dart-site}}/guides/language/effective-dart
[`File`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/dart-io/File-class.html
[Learning Dart as a JavaScript developer]: {{site.dart-site}}/guides/language/coming-from/js-to-dart
[Intro to Dart for Java Developers]: {{site.codelabs}}/codelabs/from-java-to-dart
[Language tour]: {{site.dart-site}}/guides/language/language-tour
[Library tour]: {{site.dart-site}}/guides/libraries/library-tour
