src/resources/videos.md, before:

---
title: Videos and online courses
description: Available videos and online courses on various aspects of developing in Flutter.
---

These Flutter videos, produced both internally
at Google and by the Flutter community,
might help if you are a visual learner.

Note that many people make Flutter videos.
This page shows some that we like,
but there are many others.

---

## Series

Here are some of the series offered on the
[flutterdev YouTube channel][].

[flutterdev YouTube channel]: {{site.youtube-site}}/channel/UCwXdFgeE9KYzlDdR7TG9cMw

### Flutter at Google I/O 2022

Google I/O 2022 is over, but you can still catch
the great Flutter content!

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/w_ezWG1yKQQ" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
[Flutter at Google I/O playlist][]

[Flutter at Google I/O playlist]: {{site.youtube-site}}/playlist?list=PLjxrf2q8roU1kHjuHoFGBLCxjy4h2WOcP

### Flutter Engage 2021

[Flutter Engage 2021][] was a day-long event that
officially launched Flutter 2.

[Flutter Engage 2021]: https://events.flutter.dev/

Check out the Flutter Engage 2021 highlights reel:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="{{site.youtube-site}}/embed/IdrCyS7EF8M" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Watch recordings of the sessions on the Flutter YouTube channel:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="{{site.youtube-site}}/embed/zSbsIiluixw" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
Keynote<br>
[Flutter Engage 2021 playlist][]

Watch recordings of the sessions offered by the Flutter community:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="{{site.youtube-site}}/embed/-_de6IfY2RU" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
[Flutter Engage community talks playlist][]

[Flutter Engage 2021 playlist]: {{site.youtube-site}}/playlist?list=PLjxrf2q8roU21cXt24HLm-ZODXmr4Jw0C
[Flutter Engage community talks playlist]: {{site.youtube-site}}/playlist?list=PLjxrf2q8roU1ln3WoiGTUvLr7ZrPPFvXv

### Decoding Flutter

This series focuses on tips, tricks, best practices,
and general advice on getting the most out of Flutter.
In the comments section for this series,
you can submit suggestions future episodes.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="{{site.youtube-site}}/embed/QIW35-vcA2o" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
Introducing Decoding Flutter
[Decoding Flutter playlist][]

[Decoding Flutter playlist]: {{site.youtube-site}}/playlist?list=PLjxrf2q8roU1fRV40Ec8200rX6OuQkmnl

### Flutter in focus

Five-to-ten minute tutorials (more or less) on using Flutter.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="{{site.youtube-site}}/embed/wgTBLj7rMPM" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
Introducing Flutter in focus<br>
[Flutter in focus playlist][]

[Flutter in focus playlist]: {{site.youtube-site}}/playlist?list=PLjxrf2q8roU2HdJQDjJzOeO6J3FoFLWr2

### Flutter widget of the week

Do you have 60 seconds?
Each one-minute video highlights a Flutter widget.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="{{site.youtube-site}}/embed/b_sQ9bMltGU" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
Introducing widget of the week<br>
[Flutter widget of the week playlist][]

[Flutter widget of the week playlist]: {{site.youtube-site}}/playlist?list=PLjxrf2q8roU23XGwz3Km7sQZFTdB996iG

### Flutter package of the week

If you have another minute (or two),
each of these videos highlights a Flutter package.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="{{site.youtube-site}}/embed/QFcFEpFmNJ8" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
`flutter_slidable` package
[Flutter package of the week playlist][]

[Flutter package of the week playlist]: {{site.youtube-site}}/playlist?list=PLjxrf2q8roU1quF6ny8oFHJ2gBdrYN_AK

### The Boring Flutter show

This series features Flutter programmers coding,
unscripted and in real time. Mistakes, solutions
(some of them correct), and snazzy intro music included.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="{{site.youtube-site}}/embed/vqPG1tU6-c0" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
Introducing the Boring Flutter show<br>
[The Boring Flutter show playlist][]

[The Boring Flutter show playlist]: {{site.youtube-site}}/playlist?list=PLjxrf2q8roU3ahJVrSgAnPjzkpGmL9Czl

## Conference talks

Here are a some Flutter talks given at various conferences.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="{{site.youtube-site}}/embed/d_m5csmrf7I" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
[Conference talks playlist][]

[Conference talks playlist]: {{site.youtube-site}}/playlist?list=PLjxrf2q8roU1UJ0OEpANodVMVm1GeE7Ti

## Flutter developer stories

Videos showing how various customers, such as Abbey Road Studio, Hamilton,
and Alibaba, have used Flutter to create beautiful compelling apps with
millions of downloads.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="{{site.youtube-site}}/embed/_ACWeGGBP4E" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
[Flutter developer stories playlist][]

[Flutter developer stories playlist]: {{site.youtube-site}}/playlist?list=PLjxrf2q8roU33POuWi4bK0zvDpAHK6759

## Online courses

Learn how to build Flutter apps with these video courses.
Before signing up for a course, verify that it includes
up-to-date information, such as null safe Dart code.
These courses are listed alphabetically.
To include your course, [submit a PR][]:

* [The Complete 2021 Flutter Development Bootcamp Using Dart][] by App Brewery
* [Flutter & Dart - the Complete Guide, 2021 edition][]
* [Flutter Crash Course][] by Nick Manning
* [Flutter leicht gemacht 2022 - Zero to Mastery!][] by Max Berktold

[Flutter & Dart - the Complete Guide, 2021 edition]: https://www.udemy.com/course/learn-flutter-dart-to-build-ios-android-apps/
[The Complete 2021 Flutter Development Bootcamp Using Dart]: https://www.appbrewery.co/p/flutter-development-bootcamp-with-dart/
[Flutter Crash Course]: https://fluttercrashcourse.com/
[Flutter leicht gemacht 2022 - Zero to Mastery!]: https://www.udemy.com/course/dart-flutter-leicht-gemacht/
[submit a PR]: {{site.repo.this}}/pulls

Commit message:

Add Learning to Fly to videos page

src/resources/videos.md, after:

---
title: Videos and online courses
description: Available videos and online courses on various aspects of developing in Flutter.
---

These Flutter videos, produced both internally
at Google and by the Flutter community,
might help if you are a visual learner.

Note that many people make Flutter videos.
This page shows some that we like,
but there are many others.

---

## Series

Here are some of the series offered on the
[flutterdev YouTube channel][].

[flutterdev YouTube channel]: {{site.youtube-site}}/channel/UCwXdFgeE9KYzlDdR7TG9cMw

### Flutter at Google I/O 2022

Google I/O 2022 is over, but you can still catch
the great Flutter content!

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/w_ezWG1yKQQ" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
[Flutter at Google I/O playlist][]

[Flutter at Google I/O playlist]: {{site.youtube-site}}/playlist?list=PLjxrf2q8roU1kHjuHoFGBLCxjy4h2WOcP

### Flutter Engage 2021

[Flutter Engage 2021][] was a day-long event that
officially launched Flutter 2.

[Flutter Engage 2021]: https://events.flutter.dev/

Check out the Flutter Engage 2021 highlights reel:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="{{site.youtube-site}}/embed/IdrCyS7EF8M" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Watch recordings of the sessions on the Flutter YouTube channel:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="{{site.youtube-site}}/embed/zSbsIiluixw" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
Keynote<br>
[Flutter Engage 2021 playlist][]

Watch recordings of the sessions offered by the Flutter community:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="{{site.youtube-site}}/embed/-_de6IfY2RU" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
[Flutter Engage community talks playlist][]

[Flutter Engage 2021 playlist]: {{site.youtube-site}}/playlist?list=PLjxrf2q8roU21cXt24HLm-ZODXmr4Jw0C
[Flutter Engage community talks playlist]: {{site.youtube-site}}/playlist?list=PLjxrf2q8roU1ln3WoiGTUvLr7ZrPPFvXv

### Decoding Flutter

This series focuses on tips, tricks, best practices,
and general advice on getting the most out of Flutter.
In the comments section for this series,
you can submit suggestions future episodes.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="{{site.youtube-site}}/embed/QIW35-vcA2o" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
Introducing Decoding Flutter
[Decoding Flutter playlist][]

[Decoding Flutter playlist]: {{site.youtube-site}}/playlist?list=PLjxrf2q8roU1fRV40Ec8200rX6OuQkmnl

### Flutter in focus

Five-to-ten minute tutorials (more or less) on using Flutter.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="{{site.youtube-site}}/embed/wgTBLj7rMPM" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
Introducing Flutter in focus<br>
[Flutter in focus playlist][]

[Flutter in focus playlist]: {{site.youtube-site}}/playlist?list=PLjxrf2q8roU2HdJQDjJzOeO6J3FoFLWr2

### Flutter widget of the week

Do you have 60 seconds?
Each one-minute video highlights a Flutter widget.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="{{site.youtube-site}}/embed/b_sQ9bMltGU" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
Introducing widget of the week<br>
[Flutter widget of the week playlist][]

[Flutter widget of the week playlist]: {{site.youtube-site}}/playlist?list=PLjxrf2q8roU23XGwz3Km7sQZFTdB996iG

### Flutter package of the week

If you have another minute (or two),
each of these videos highlights a Flutter package.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="{{site.youtube-site}}/embed/QFcFEpFmNJ8" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
`flutter_slidable` package
[Flutter package of the week playlist][]

[Flutter package of the week playlist]: {{site.youtube-site}}/playlist?list=PLjxrf2q8roU1quF6ny8oFHJ2gBdrYN_AK

### The Boring Flutter show

This series features Flutter programmers coding,
unscripted and in real time. Mistakes, solutions
(some of them correct), and snazzy intro music included.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="{{site.youtube-site}}/embed/vqPG1tU6-c0" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
Introducing the Boring Flutter show<br>
[The Boring Flutter show playlist][]

[The Boring Flutter show playlist]: {{site.youtube-site}}/playlist?list=PLjxrf2q8roU3ahJVrSgAnPjzkpGmL9Czl

### Learning to Fly

Follow along with Khanh’s journey as she builds her first Flutter app. 
From ideation down to the moments of confusion,
learn alongside her as she asks important questions like: 
“What is the best way to build out a theme? How to approach using fonts?” 
And more!

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="{{site.youtube-site}}/embed/CkcvVZZEsJE" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
Building my first Flutter app | Learning to Fly<br>
[Learning to Fly playlist][]

[Learning to Fly playlist]: {{site.youtube-site}}/playlist?list=PLjxrf2q8roU3X18pAQWLyCJaa79RpqWnn

## Conference talks

Here are a some Flutter talks given at various conferences.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="{{site.youtube-site}}/embed/d_m5csmrf7I" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
[Conference talks playlist][]

[Conference talks playlist]: {{site.youtube-site}}/playlist?list=PLjxrf2q8roU1UJ0OEpANodVMVm1GeE7Ti

## Flutter developer stories

Videos showing how various customers, such as Abbey Road Studio, Hamilton,
and Alibaba, have used Flutter to create beautiful compelling apps with
millions of downloads.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="{{site.youtube-site}}/embed/_ACWeGGBP4E" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
[Flutter developer stories playlist][]

[Flutter developer stories playlist]: {{site.youtube-site}}/playlist?list=PLjxrf2q8roU33POuWi4bK0zvDpAHK6759

## Online courses

Learn how to build Flutter apps with these video courses.
Before signing up for a course, verify that it includes
up-to-date information, such as null safe Dart code.
These courses are listed alphabetically.
To include your course, [submit a PR][]:

* [The Complete 2021 Flutter Development Bootcamp Using Dart][] by App Brewery
* [Flutter & Dart - the Complete Guide, 2021 edition][]
* [Flutter Crash Course][] by Nick Manning
* [Flutter leicht gemacht 2022 - Zero to Mastery!][] by Max Berktold

[Flutter & Dart - the Complete Guide, 2021 edition]: https://www.udemy.com/course/learn-flutter-dart-to-build-ios-android-apps/
[The Complete 2021 Flutter Development Bootcamp Using Dart]: https://www.appbrewery.co/p/flutter-development-bootcamp-with-dart/
[Flutter Crash Course]: https://fluttercrashcourse.com/
[Flutter leicht gemacht 2022 - Zero to Mastery!]: https://www.udemy.com/course/dart-flutter-leicht-gemacht/
[submit a PR]: {{site.repo.this}}/pulls
