src/docs/development/add-to-app/performance.md, before:

---
title: Load sequence, performance, and memory
description: What are the steps involved when showing a Flutter UI.
---

This page describes the breakdown of the steps involved
to show a Flutter UI. Knowing this, you can make better, informed decisions
about when to pre-warm the Flutter engine, which operations are possible
at which stage, and the latency and memory costs of those operations.

## Loading Flutter

Android and iOS apps (the two supported platforms for
integrating into existing apps), full Flutter apps,
and add-to-app patterns have a similar sequence of
conceptual loading steps when displaying the Flutter UI.

### Finding the Flutter resources

Flutter's engine runtime and your application's compiled
Dart code are both bundled as shared libraries on Android
and iOS. The first step of loading Flutter is to find those
resources in your .apk/.ipa/.app (along with other Flutter
assets such as images, fonts, and JIT code if applicable).

This happens when you construct a `FlutterEngine` for the
first time on both **[Android][android-engine]**
and **[iOS][ios-engine]** APIs.

### Loading the Flutter library

After it's found, the engine's shared libraries are memory loaded
once per process.

On **Android**, this also happens when the
[`FlutterEngine`][android-engine] is constructed because the
JNI connectors need to reference the Flutter C++ library.
On **iOS**, this happens when the
[`FlutterEngine`][ios-engine] is first run,
such as by running [`runWithEntrypoint:`][].

### Starting the Dart VM

The Dart runtime is responsible for managing Dart memory and
concurrency for your Dart code. In JIT mode,
it's additionally responsible for compiling
the Dart source code into machine code during runtime.

A single Dart runtime exists per application session on
Android and iOS.

A one-time Dart VM start is done when constructing the
[`FlutterEngine`][android-engine] for the first time on
**Android** and when [running a Dart entrypoint][ios-engine]
for the first time on **iOS**.

At this point, your Dart code's [snapshot][]
is also loaded into memory from your application's files.

This is a generic process that also occurs if you used the
[Dart SDK][] directly, without the Flutter engine.

The Dart VM never shuts down after it's started.

### Creating and running a Dart Isolate

After the Dart runtime is initialized,
the Flutter engine's usage of the Dart
runtime is the next step.

This is done by starting a [Dart `Isolate`][] in the Dart runtime.
The isolate is Dart's container for memory and threads.
A number of [auxiliary threads][] on the host platform are
also created at this point to support the isolate, such
as a thread for offloading GPU handling and another for image decoding.

One isolate exists per `FlutterEngine` instance, and multiple isolates
can be hosted by the same Dart VM.

On **Android**, this happens when you call
[`DartExecutor.executeDartEntrypoint()`][]
on a `FlutterEngine` instance.

On **iOS**, this happens when you call [`runWithEntrypoint:`][]
on a `FlutterEngine`.

At this point, your Dart code's selected entrypoint
(the `main()` function of your Dart library's `main.dart` file,
by default) is executed. If you called the
Flutter function [`runApp()`][] in your `main()` function,
then your Flutter app or your library's widget tree is also created
and built. If you need to prevent certain functionalities from executing
in your Flutter code, then the `AppLifecycleState.detached`
enum value indicates that the `FlutterEngine` isn't attached
to any UI components such as a `FlutterViewController`
on iOS or a `FlutterActivity` on Android.

### Attaching a UI to the Flutter engine

A standard, full Flutter app moves to reach this state as
soon as the app is launched.

In an add-to-app scenario,
this happens when you attach a `FlutterEngine`
to a UI component such as by calling [`startActivity()`][])
with an [`Intent`][] built using [`FlutterActivity.withCachedEngine()`][]
on **Android**. Or, by presenting a [`FlutterViewController`][]
initialized by using [`initWithEngine: nibName: bundle:`][]
on **iOS**.

This is also the case if a Flutter UI component was launched without
pre-warming a `FlutterEngine` such as with
[`FlutterActivity.createDefaultIntent()`][] on **Android**,
or with [`FlutterViewController initWithProject: nibName: bundle:`][]
on **iOS**. An implicit `FlutterEngine` is created in these cases.

Behind the scene, both platform's UI components provide the
`FlutterEngine` with a rendering surface such as a
[`Surface`][] on **Android** or a [CAEAGLLayer][] or [CAMetalLayer][]
on **iOS**.

At this point, the [`Layer`][] tree generated by your Flutter
program, per frame, is converted into
OpenGL (or Vulkan or Metal) GPU instructions.

## Memory and latency

Showing a Flutter UI has a non-trivial latency cost.
This cost can be lessened by starting the Flutter engine
ahead of time.

The most relevant choice for add-to-app scenarios is for you
to decide when to pre-load a `FlutterEngine`
(that is, to load the Flutter library, start the Dart VM,
and run entrypoint in an isolate), and what the memory and latency
cost is of that pre-warm. You also need to know how the pre-warm
affects the memory and latency cost of rendering a first Flutter
frame when the UI component is subsequently attached
to that `FlutterEngine`.

As of Flutter v1.10.3, and testing on a low-end 2015 class device
in release-AOT mode, pre-warming the `FlutterEngine` costs:

* 42 MB and 1530 ms to prewarm on **Android**.
  330 ms of it is a blocking call on the main thread.
* 22 MB and 860 ms to prewarm on **iOS**.
  260 ms of it is a blocking call on the main thread.

A Flutter UI can be attached during the pre-warm.
The remaining time is joined to the time-to-first-frame latency.

Memory-wise, a cost sample (variable,
depending on the use case) could be:

* ~4 MB OS's memory usage for creating pthreads.
* ~10 MB GPU driver memory.
* ~1 MB for Dart runtime-managed memory.
* ~5 MB for Dart-loaded font maps.

Latency-wise,
a cost sample (variable, depending on the use case) could be:

* ~20 ms to collect the Flutter assets from the application package.
* ~15 ms to dlopen the Flutter engine library.
* ~200 ms to create the Dart VM and load the AOT snapshot.
* ~200 ms to load Flutter-dependent fonts and assets.
* ~400 ms to run the entrypoint, create the first widget tree,
  and  compile the needed GPU shader programs.

The `FlutterEngine` should be pre-warmed late enough to delay the
memory consumption needed but early enough to avoid combining the
Flutter engine start-up time with the first frame latency of
showing Flutter.

The exact timing depends on the app's structure and heuristics.
An example would be to load the Flutter engine in the screen
before the screen is drawn by Flutter.

Given an engine pre-warm, the first frame cost on UI attach is:

* 320 ms on **Android** and an additional 12 MB
  (highly dependent on the screen's physical pixel size).
* 200 ms on **iOS** and an additional 16 MB
  (highly dependent on the screen's physical pixel size).

Memory-wise, the cost is primarily the graphical memory buffer used for
rendering and is dependent on the screen size.

Latency-wise, the cost is primarily waiting for the OS callback to provide
Flutter with a rendering surface and compiling the remaining shader programs
that are not pre-emptively predictable. This is a one-time cost.

When the Flutter UI component is released, the UI-related memory is freed.
This doesn't affect the Flutter state, which lives in the `FlutterEngine`
(unless the `FlutterEngine` is also released).

For performance details on creating more than one `FlutterEngine`, see
[multiple Flutters][].

[android-engine]: {{site.api}}/javadoc/io/flutter/embedding/engine/FlutterEngine.html
[auxiliary threads]: {{site.github}}/flutter/flutter/wiki/The-Engine-architecture#threading
[CAEAGLLayer]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/quartzcore/caeagllayer
[CAMetalLayer]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/quartzcore/cametallayer
[Dart `Isolate`]: {{site.dart.api}}/stable/dart-isolate/Isolate-class.html
[Dart SDK]: {{site.dart-site}}/tools/sdk
[`DartExecutor.executeDartEntrypoint()`]: {{site.api}}/javadoc/io/flutter/embedding/engine/dart/DartExecutor.html#executeDartEntrypoint-io.flutter.embedding.engine.dart.DartExecutor.DartEntrypoint-
[`FlutterActivity.createDefaultIntent()`]: {{site.api}}/javadoc/io/flutter/embedding/android/FlutterActivity.html#createDefaultIntent-android.content.Context-
[`FlutterActivity.withCachedEngine()`]: {{site.api}}/javadoc/io/flutter/embedding/android/FlutterActivity.html#withCachedEngine-java.lang.String-
[`FlutterViewController`]: {{site.api}}/objcdoc/Classes/FlutterViewController.html
[`FlutterViewController initWithProject: nibName: bundle:`]: {{site.api}}/objcdoc/Classes/FlutterViewController.html#/c:objc(cs)FlutterViewController(im)initWithProject:nibName:bundle:
[`initWithEngine: nibName: bundle:`]: {{site.api}}/objcdoc/Classes/FlutterViewController.html#/c:objc(cs)FlutterViewController(im)initWithEngine:nibName:bundle:
[`Intent`]: https://developer.android.com/reference/android/content/Intent.html
[ios-engine]: {{site.api}}/objcdoc/Classes/FlutterEngine.html
[`Layer`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/rendering/Layer-class.html
[`runApp()`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/runApp.html
[`runWithEntrypoint:`]: {{site.api}}/objcdoc/Classes/FlutterEngine.html#/c:objc(cs)FlutterEngine(im)runWithEntrypoint:
[snapshot]: {{site.github}}/dart-lang/sdk/wiki/Snapshots
[`startActivity()`]: https://developer.android.com/reference/android/content/Context.html#startActivity(android.content.Intent
[`Surface`]: https://developer.android.com/reference/android/view/Surface
[multiple Flutters]: /docs/development/add-to-app/multiple-flutters

Commit message:

Various updates. (#5273)
* Various updates.

* Update src/desktop.md

Co-authored-by: Kathy Walrath <kathyw@google.com>

* Update src/docs/development/platform-integration/platform-channels.md

Co-authored-by: Kathy Walrath <kathyw@google.com>

* Update src/docs/perf/faq.md

Co-authored-by: Kathy Walrath <kathyw@google.com>

* Update src/docs/perf/faq.md

Co-authored-by: Kathy Walrath <kathyw@google.com>

* Update src/web.md

Co-authored-by: Kathy Walrath <kathyw@google.com>

* Update src/web.md

Co-authored-by: Kathy Walrath <kathyw@google.com>

* Update src/index.html

Co-authored-by: Kathy Walrath <kathyw@google.com>

* Update src/docs/perf/metrics.md

Co-authored-by: Kathy Walrath <kathyw@google.com>

* Update src/docs/development/add-to-app/android/add-flutter-view.md

Co-authored-by: Kathy Walrath <kathyw@google.com>

* ddd

* Fixing another malformed note.

* Update src/web.md

Co-authored-by: Kathy Walrath <kathyw@google.com>

* fix links (and build)?

Co-authored-by: Kathy Walrath <kathyw@google.com>

src/docs/development/add-to-app/performance.md, after:

---
title: Load sequence, performance, and memory
description: What are the steps involved when showing a Flutter UI.
---

This page describes the breakdown of the steps involved
to show a Flutter UI. Knowing this, you can make better,
more informed decisions about when to pre-warm the Flutter engine,
which operations are possible at which stage,
and the latency and memory costs of those operations.

## Loading Flutter

Android and iOS apps (the two supported platforms for
integrating into existing apps), full Flutter apps,
and add-to-app patterns have a similar sequence of
conceptual loading steps when displaying the Flutter UI.

### Finding the Flutter resources

Flutter's engine runtime and your application's compiled
Dart code are both bundled as shared libraries on Android
and iOS. The first step of loading Flutter is to find those
resources in your .apk/.ipa/.app (along with other Flutter
assets such as images, fonts, and JIT code, if applicable).

This happens when you construct a `FlutterEngine` for the
first time on both **[Android][android-engine]**
and **[iOS][ios-engine]** APIs.

### Loading the Flutter library

After it's found, the engine's shared libraries are memory loaded
once per process.

On **Android**, this also happens when the
[`FlutterEngine`][android-engine] is constructed because the
JNI connectors need to reference the Flutter C++ library.
On **iOS**, this happens when the
[`FlutterEngine`][ios-engine] is first run,
such as by running [`runWithEntrypoint:`][].

### Starting the Dart VM

The Dart runtime is responsible for managing Dart memory and
concurrency for your Dart code. In JIT mode,
it's additionally responsible for compiling
the Dart source code into machine code during runtime.

A single Dart runtime exists per application session on
Android and iOS.

A one-time Dart VM start is done when constructing the
[`FlutterEngine`][android-engine] for the first time on
**Android** and when [running a Dart entrypoint][ios-engine]
for the first time on **iOS**.

At this point, your Dart code's [snapshot][]
is also loaded into memory from your application's files.

This is a generic process that also occurs if you used the
[Dart SDK][] directly, without the Flutter engine.

The Dart VM never shuts down after it's started.

### Creating and running a Dart Isolate

After the Dart runtime is initialized,
the Flutter engine's usage of the Dart
runtime is the next step.

This is done by starting a [Dart `Isolate`][] in the Dart runtime.
The isolate is Dart's container for memory and threads.
A number of [auxiliary threads][] on the host platform are
also created at this point to support the isolate, such
as a thread for offloading GPU handling and another for image decoding.

One isolate exists per `FlutterEngine` instance, and multiple isolates
can be hosted by the same Dart VM.

On **Android**, this happens when you call
[`DartExecutor.executeDartEntrypoint()`][]
on a `FlutterEngine` instance.

On **iOS**, this happens when you call [`runWithEntrypoint:`][]
on a `FlutterEngine`.

At this point, your Dart code's selected entrypoint
(the `main()` function of your Dart library's `main.dart` file,
by default) is executed. If you called the
Flutter function [`runApp()`][] in your `main()` function,
then your Flutter app or your library's widget tree is also created
and built. If you need to prevent certain functionalities from executing
in your Flutter code, then the `AppLifecycleState.detached`
enum value indicates that the `FlutterEngine` isn't attached
to any UI components such as a `FlutterViewController`
on iOS or a `FlutterActivity` on Android.

### Attaching a UI to the Flutter engine

A standard, full Flutter app moves to reach this state as
soon as the app is launched.

In an add-to-app scenario,
this happens when you attach a `FlutterEngine`
to a UI component such as by calling [`startActivity()`][])
with an [`Intent`][] built using [`FlutterActivity.withCachedEngine()`][]
on **Android**. Or, by presenting a [`FlutterViewController`][]
initialized by using [`initWithEngine: nibName: bundle:`][]
on **iOS**.

This is also the case if a Flutter UI component was launched without
pre-warming a `FlutterEngine` such as with
[`FlutterActivity.createDefaultIntent()`][] on **Android**,
or with [`FlutterViewController initWithProject: nibName: bundle:`][]
on **iOS**. An implicit `FlutterEngine` is created in these cases.

Behind the scene, both platform's UI components provide the
`FlutterEngine` with a rendering surface such as a
[`Surface`][] on **Android** or a [CAEAGLLayer][] or [CAMetalLayer][]
on **iOS**.

At this point, the [`Layer`][] tree generated by your Flutter
program, per frame, is converted into
OpenGL (or Vulkan or Metal) GPU instructions.

## Memory and latency

Showing a Flutter UI has a non-trivial latency cost.
This cost can be lessened by starting the Flutter engine
ahead of time.

The most relevant choice for add-to-app scenarios is for you
to decide when to pre-load a `FlutterEngine`
(that is, to load the Flutter library, start the Dart VM,
and run entrypoint in an isolate), and what the memory and latency
cost is of that pre-warm. You also need to know how the pre-warm
affects the memory and latency cost of rendering a first Flutter
frame when the UI component is subsequently attached
to that `FlutterEngine`.

As of Flutter v1.10.3, and testing on a low-end 2015 class device
in release-AOT mode, pre-warming the `FlutterEngine` costs:

* 42 MB and 1530 ms to prewarm on **Android**.
  330 ms of it is a blocking call on the main thread.
* 22 MB and 860 ms to prewarm on **iOS**.
  260 ms of it is a blocking call on the main thread.

A Flutter UI can be attached during the pre-warm.
The remaining time is joined to the time-to-first-frame latency.

Memory-wise, a cost sample (variable,
depending on the use case) could be:

* ~4 MB OS's memory usage for creating pthreads.
* ~10 MB GPU driver memory.
* ~1 MB for Dart runtime-managed memory.
* ~5 MB for Dart-loaded font maps.

Latency-wise,
a cost sample (variable, depending on the use case) could be:

* ~20 ms to collect the Flutter assets from the application package.
* ~15 ms to dlopen the Flutter engine library.
* ~200 ms to create the Dart VM and load the AOT snapshot.
* ~200 ms to load Flutter-dependent fonts and assets.
* ~400 ms to run the entrypoint, create the first widget tree,
  and  compile the needed GPU shader programs.

The `FlutterEngine` should be pre-warmed late enough to delay the
memory consumption needed but early enough to avoid combining the
Flutter engine start-up time with the first frame latency of
showing Flutter.

The exact timing depends on the app's structure and heuristics.
An example would be to load the Flutter engine in the screen
before the screen is drawn by Flutter.

Given an engine pre-warm, the first frame cost on UI attach is:

* 320 ms on **Android** and an additional 12 MB
  (highly dependent on the screen's physical pixel size).
* 200 ms on **iOS** and an additional 16 MB
  (highly dependent on the screen's physical pixel size).

Memory-wise, the cost is primarily the graphical memory buffer used for
rendering and is dependent on the screen size.

Latency-wise, the cost is primarily waiting for the OS callback to provide
Flutter with a rendering surface and compiling the remaining shader programs
that are not pre-emptively predictable. This is a one-time cost.

When the Flutter UI component is released, the UI-related memory is freed.
This doesn't affect the Flutter state, which lives in the `FlutterEngine`
(unless the `FlutterEngine` is also released).

For performance details on creating more than one `FlutterEngine`, see
[multiple Flutters][].

[android-engine]: {{site.api}}/javadoc/io/flutter/embedding/engine/FlutterEngine.html
[auxiliary threads]: {{site.github}}/flutter/flutter/wiki/The-Engine-architecture#threading
[CAEAGLLayer]: {{site.apple-dev}}/documentation/quartzcore/caeagllayer
[CAMetalLayer]: {{site.apple-dev}}/documentation/quartzcore/cametallayer
[Dart `Isolate`]: {{site.dart.api}}/stable/dart-isolate/Isolate-class.html
[Dart SDK]: {{site.dart-site}}/tools/sdk
[`DartExecutor.executeDartEntrypoint()`]: {{site.api}}/javadoc/io/flutter/embedding/engine/dart/DartExecutor.html#executeDartEntrypoint-io.flutter.embedding.engine.dart.DartExecutor.DartEntrypoint-
[`FlutterActivity.createDefaultIntent()`]: {{site.api}}/javadoc/io/flutter/embedding/android/FlutterActivity.html#createDefaultIntent-android.content.Context-
[`FlutterActivity.withCachedEngine()`]: {{site.api}}/javadoc/io/flutter/embedding/android/FlutterActivity.html#withCachedEngine-java.lang.String-
[`FlutterViewController`]: {{site.api}}/objcdoc/Classes/FlutterViewController.html
[`FlutterViewController initWithProject: nibName: bundle:`]: {{site.api}}/objcdoc/Classes/FlutterViewController.html#/c:objc(cs)FlutterViewController(im)initWithProject:nibName:bundle:
[`initWithEngine: nibName: bundle:`]: {{site.api}}/objcdoc/Classes/FlutterViewController.html#/c:objc(cs)FlutterViewController(im)initWithEngine:nibName:bundle:
[`Intent`]: {{site.android-dev}}/reference/android/content/Intent.html
[ios-engine]: {{site.api}}/objcdoc/Classes/FlutterEngine.html
[`Layer`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/rendering/Layer-class.html
[`runApp()`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/runApp.html
[`runWithEntrypoint:`]: {{site.api}}/objcdoc/Classes/FlutterEngine.html#/c:objc(cs)FlutterEngine(im)runWithEntrypoint:
[snapshot]: {{site.github}}/dart-lang/sdk/wiki/Snapshots
[`startActivity()`]: {{site.android-dev}}/reference/android/content/Context.html#startActivity(android.content.Intent
[`Surface`]: {{site.android-dev}}/reference/android/view/Surface
