---
title: Integrate a Flutter module into your Android project
short-title: Integrate Flutter
description: Learn how to integrate a Flutter module into your existing Android project.
---

Flutter can be embedded into your existing Android
application piecemeal, as a source code Gradle
subproject or as AARs.

The integration flow can be done using the Android Studio
IDE with the [Flutter plugin][] or manually.

{{site.alert.warning}}
  Your existing Android app might support architectures
  such as `mips` or `x86`. Flutter currently [only supports][]
  building ahead-of-time (AOT) compiled libraries
  for `x86_64`, `armeabi-v7a`, and `arm64-v8a`.

  Consider using the [`abiFilters`][] Android Gradle
  Plugin API to limit the supported architectures in your APK.
  Doing this avoids a missing `libflutter.so` runtime crash,
  for example:

<?code-excerpt title="MyApp/app/build.gradle"?>

```gradle
android {
  //...
  defaultConfig {
    ndk {
      // Filter for architectures supported by Flutter.
      abiFilters 'armeabi-v7a', 'arm64-v8a', 'x86_64'
    }
  }
}
```

  The Flutter engine has an `x86` and `x86_64` version.
  When using an emulator in debug Just-In-Time (JIT) mode,
  the Flutter module still runs correctly.
{{site.alert.end}}

## Integrate your Flutter module

{% comment %} Nav tabs {% endcomment -%}
<ul class="nav nav-tabs" id="add-to-app-android" role="tablist">
    <li class="nav-item">
        <a class="nav-link active" id="with-android-studio-tab" href="#with-android-studio" role="tab" aria-controls="with-android-studio" aria-selected="true">With Android Studio</a>
    </li>
    <li class="nav-item">
        <a class="nav-link" id="without-android-studio-tab" href="#without-android-studio" role="tab" aria-controls="without-android-studio" aria-selected="false">Without Android Studio</a>
    </li>
</ul>

{% comment %} Tab panes {% endcomment -%}
<div class="tab-content">

<div class="tab-pane active" id="with-android-studio" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="with-android-studio-tab" markdown="1">

### Integrate with Android Studio
{:.no_toc}

The Android Studio IDE can help integrate your Flutter module.
Using Android Studio, you can edit both your Android and Flutter code
in the same IDE.

You can also use your IntelliJ Flutter plugin functionality like
Dart code completion, hot reload, and widget inspector.

Android Studio supports add-to-app flows on Android Studio 2022.1 or later
with version 42 or later of the [Flutter plugin][] for IntelliJ.
The Android Studio integration requires a source code Gradle subproject.

1. Open your Android project in Android Studio.

1. Go to **File** > **New** > **New Project...**.
    The **New Project** dialog displays.

1. Click **Flutter**.

1. If asked to provide your **Flutter SDK path**, do so and click **Next**.

1. Complete the configuration of your Flutter module.

    * If you have an existing project:

        {: type="a"}
        1. To choose an existing project, click **...**.
        to the right of the **Project location** box.
        1. Navigate to your Flutter project directory.
        1. Click **Open**.

    * If you need to create a new Flutter project:

        {: type="a"}
        1. Complete the configuration dialog.
        1. In the **Project type** menu, select **Module**.

1. Click **Finish**.

{{site.alert.tip}}
  By default, your project's Project pane might show the 'Android' view.
  If you can't see your new Flutter files in the Project pane,
  set your Project pane to display **Project Files**.
  This shows all files without filtering.
{{site.alert.end}}

</div>

<div class="tab-pane" id="without-android-studio" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="without-android-studio-tab" markdown="1">

### Integrate without Android Studio
{:.no_toc}

To integrate a Flutter module with an existing Android app
manually, without using Flutter's Android Studio plugin,
follow these steps:

#### Create a Flutter module
{:.no_toc}

Let's assume that you have an existing Android app at
`some/path/MyApp`, and that you want your Flutter
project as a sibling:

```terminal
$ cd some/path/
$ flutter create -t module --org com.example flutter_module
```

This creates a `some/path/flutter_module/` Flutter module project
with some Dart code to get you started and an `.android/`
hidden subfolder. The `.android` folder contains an
Android project that can both help you run a barebones
standalone version of your Flutter module via `flutter run`
and it's also a wrapper that helps bootstrap the Flutter
module an embeddable Android library.

{{site.alert.note}}
  Add custom Android code to your own existing
  application's project or a plugin,
  not to the module in `.android/`.
  Changes made in your module's `.android/`
  directory won't appear in your existing Android
  project using the module.

  Do not source control the `.android/` directory
  since it's autogenerated. Before building the
  module on a new machine, run `flutter pub get`
  in the `flutter_module` directory first to regenerate
  the `.android/` directory before building the
  Android project using the Flutter module.
{{site.alert.end}}

{{site.alert.note}}
  To avoid Dex merging issues, `flutter.androidPackage` should not be identical to your host app's package name
{{site.alert.end}}

#### Java 11 requirement
{:.no_toc}

The Flutter Android Gradle plugin uses Java 11 features.

Before attempting to connect your Flutter module project
to your host Android app, ensure that your host Android
app declares the following source compatibility within your
app's `build.gradle` file, under the `android { }`
block, such as:

<?code-excerpt title="MyApp/app/build.gradle"?>
```gradle
android {
  //...
  compileOptions {
    sourceCompatibility 11
    targetCompatibility 11
  }
}
```

</div>
</div>
{% comment %} End: Tab panes. {% endcomment -%}

## Add the Flutter module as a dependency

Add the Flutter module as a dependency of your
existing app in Gradle. You can achieve this in two ways.

1. **Android archive**
    The AAR mechanism creates generic Android AARs as
    intermediaries that packages your Flutter module.
    This is good when your downstream app builders don't
    want to have the Flutter SDK installed. But,
    it adds one more build step if you build frequently.

1. **Module source code**
    The source code subproject mechanism is a convenient
    one-click build process, but requires the Flutter SDK.
    This is the mechanism used by the Android Studio IDE plugin.

{% comment %} Nav tabs {% endcomment -%}
<ul class="nav nav-tabs" id="add-to-app-android-deps" role="tablist">
    <li class="nav-item">
        <a class="nav-link active" id="android-archive-tab" href="#android-archive" role="tab" aria-controls="android-archive" aria-selected="true">Android Archive</a>
    </li>
    <li class="nav-item">
        <a class="nav-link" id="module-source-tab" href="#module-source" role="tab" aria-controls="module-source" aria-selected="false">Module source code</a>
    </li>
</ul>

{% comment %} Tab panes {% endcomment -%}
<div class="tab-content">

<div class="tab-pane active" id="android-archive" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="android-archive-tab" markdown="1">

### Depend on the Android Archive (AAR)
{:.no_toc}

This option packages your Flutter library as a generic local
Maven repository composed of AARs and POMs artifacts.
This option allows your team to build the host app without
installing the Flutter SDK. You can then distribute the
artifacts from a local or remote repository.

Let's assume you built a Flutter module at
`some/path/flutter_module`, and then run:

```terminal
$ cd some/path/flutter_module
$ flutter build aar
```

Then, follow the on-screen instructions to integrate.

{% include docs/app-figure.md image="development/add-to-app/android/project-setup/build-aar-instructions.png" %}

More specifically, this command creates
(by default all debug/profile/release modes)
a [local repository][], with the following files:

```nocode
build/host/outputs/repo
└── com
    └── example
        └── flutter_module
            ├── flutter_release
            │   ├── 1.0
            │   │   ├── flutter_release-1.0.aar
            │   │   ├── flutter_release-1.0.aar.md5
            │   │   ├── flutter_release-1.0.aar.sha1
            │   │   ├── flutter_release-1.0.pom
            │   │   ├── flutter_release-1.0.pom.md5
            │   │   └── flutter_release-1.0.pom.sha1
            │   ├── maven-metadata.xml
            │   ├── maven-metadata.xml.md5
            │   └── maven-metadata.xml.sha1
            ├── flutter_profile
            │   ├── ...
            └── flutter_debug
                └── ...
```

To depend on the AAR, the host app must be able
to find these files.

To do that, edit `app/build.gradle` in your host app
so that it includes the local repository and the dependency:

<?code-excerpt title="MyApp/app/build.gradle"?>
```gradle
android {
  // ...
}

repositories {
  maven {
    url 'some/path/flutter_module/build/host/outputs/repo'
    // This is relative to the location of the build.gradle file
    // if using a relative path.
  }
  maven {
    url 'https://storage.googleapis.com/download.flutter.io'
  }
}

dependencies {
  // ...
  debugImplementation 'com.example.flutter_module:flutter_debug:1.0'
  profileImplementation 'com.example.flutter_module:flutter_profile:1.0'
  releaseImplementation 'com.example.flutter_module:flutter_release:1.0'
}
```

{{site.alert.important}}
  If you're located in China, use a mirror site rather than the
  `storage.googleapis.com` domain. To learn more about mirror sites,
  check out [Using Flutter in China][] page.
{{site.alert.end}}

{{site.alert.tip}}
  You can also build an AAR for your Flutter module in Android Studio using
  the `Build > Flutter > Build AAR` menu.

  {% include docs/app-figure.md image="development/add-to-app/android/project-setup/ide-build-aar.png" %}
{{site.alert.end}}

</div>

<div class="tab-pane" id="module-source" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="module-source-tab" markdown="1">

### Depend on the module's source code
{:.no_toc}

This option enables a one-step build for both your
Android project and Flutter project. This option is
convenient when you work on both parts simultaneously
and rapidly iterate, but your team must install the
Flutter SDK to build the host app.

{{site.alert.tip}}
  By default, the host app provides the `:app` Gradle project.
  To change the name of this project, set
  `flutter.hostAppProjectName` in the Flutter module's
  `gradle.properties` file.
  Include this project in the host app's `settings.gradle` file.
{{site.alert.end}}

Include the Flutter module as a subproject in the host app's
`settings.gradle`. This example assumes `flutter_module` and `MyApp`
exist in the same directory

<?code-excerpt title="MyApp/settings.gradle"?>
```groovy
// Include the host app project.
include ':app'                                    // assumed existing content
setBinding(new Binding([gradle: this]))                                // new
evaluate(new File(                                                     // new
    settingsDir.parentFile,                                            // new
    'flutter_module/.android/include_flutter.groovy'                   // new
))                                                                     // new
```

The binding and script evaluation allows the Flutter
module to `include` itself (as `:flutter`) and any
Flutter plugins used by the module (as `:package_info`,
`:video_player`, etc) in the evaluation context of
your `settings.gradle`.

Introduce an `implementation` dependency on the Flutter
module from your app:

<?code-excerpt title="MyApp/app/build.gradle"?>
```groovy
dependencies {
    implementation project(':flutter')
}
```

</div>
</div>
{% comment %} End: Tab panes. {% endcomment -%}

Your app now includes the Flutter module as a dependency.

Continue to the [Adding a Flutter screen to an Android app][] guide.

[`abiFilters`]: https://developer.android.com/reference/tools/gradle-api/4.2/com/android/build/api/dsl/Ndk#abiFilters:kotlin.collections.MutableSet
[Adding a Flutter screen to an Android app]: {{site.url}}/add-to-app/android/add-flutter-screen
[Flutter plugin]: https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9212-flutter
[local repository]: https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/declaring_repositories.html#sub:maven_local
[only supports]: {{site.url}}/resources/faq#what-devices-and-os-versions-does-flutter-run-on
[Using Flutter in China]: {{site.url}}/community/china
