src/adoptawidget/index.md, before:

---
title: Adopt a Widget
layout: default
show_banner: False
---

<img src="/adoptawidget/images/image1.png" alt="Adopt a Widget logo" width="100%" />

Flutter is an open source project hosted [on
GitHub](https://github.com/flutter/flutter), and making the documentation better
helps everyone! So, for the month of November, we’re extending a special
invitation to contribute to the Flutter project by choosing a Widget and
improving its API documentation.

{{site.alert.note}}
Thanks to your eager participation, all of the
[issues](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/issues?q=is%3Aissue+label%3A%22adopt+a+widget%22)
have been assigned, though we are still reviewing PRs. We may do something
similar in the future, so stay tuned!
{{site.alert.end}}

## Contributions

(Updated Feb 12, 2021)

- [Chinmay-KB](https://github.com/Chinmay-KB) contributed to the [WillPopScope docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/WillPopScope-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69563))
- [chihempat](https://github.com/chihempat) contributed to the [SliverWithKeepAliveWidget docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/SliverWithKeepAliveWidget-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69557))
- [obitodarky](https://github.com/obitodarky) contributed to the [Stepper docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/material/Stepper-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/70092))
- [Sameerkash](https://github.com/Sameerkash) found an issue with the [StatusTransitionWidget docs](https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/StatusTransitionWidget-class.html) ([issue](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/issues/69558))
- [tadaspetra](https://github.com/tadaspetra) contributed to the [MaterialBanner docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/material/MaterialBanner-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69530))
- [singhsuryanshu](https://github.com/singhsuryanshu) contributed to the [FittedBox docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/FittedBox-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69503))
- [parzuko](https://github.com/parzuko) contributed to the [Draggable docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/Draggable-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69527))
- [arps18](https://github.com/arps18) contributed to the [Shortcuts docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/Shortcuts-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69568))
- [Amitpatil215](https://github.com/Amitpatil215) contributed to the [AspectRatio docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/AspectRatio-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69509))
- [CaptainIRS](https://github.com/CaptainIRS) contributed to the [AbsorbPointer docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/AbsorbPointer-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69521))
- [abd99](https://github.com/abd99) contributed to the [Dismissible docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/Dismissible-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69535))
- [redsolver](https://github.com/redsolver) contributed to the [Table docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/Table-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69588))
- [tsvillain](https://github.com/tsvillain) contributed to the [Tooltip](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/material/Tooltip-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69518))
- [Thesmader](https://github.com/Thesmader) contributed to the [SnackBar](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/material/SnackBar-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69555))
- [Abhishek Ghaskata]({{site.github}}/Abhishek01039) contributed to the [Hero]({{site.master-api}}/flutter/widgets/Hero-class.html) ([pull request]({{site.github}}/flutter/flutter/pull/74415))

## How to contribute {#how-to-contribute}

1. Go to [this list of
issues](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22adopt+a+widget%22+no%3Aassignee)
and choose an issue. You can only be assigned one Adopt A Widget issue at a
time, so pick your favorite!
2. Leave a comment on the issue, asking to be assigned. The first person to
respond will be assigned. For example:
<img src="/adoptawidget/images/image2.png" alt="Ask to be assigned" width="100%" />
3. Once you are assigned, set up your environment, make the change, and submit
the pull request. If you're not sure how to do this, see the
[Quickstart](#quickstart) below.

The
[CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
doc has details on contributing to Flutter.

## Discord {#discord}

Join the [#AdoptAWidget channel on the Flutter Discord
server](https://discord.com/channels/608014603317936148/771798504355528704) to
ask questions and get help.

## Guidelines

**Wait to be assigned**

If you aren't assigned to the issue, let the assignee fix it. Don't submit a
pull request for someone else's issue.

**Respond within three days after being assigned**

If we don't hear back from you, we might need to assign it to someone else.

**One issue at a time**

If you're already working on an issue, wait until it's closed before requesting
another.

**Don't create "Adopt A Widget" issues**

We are limiting AdoptAWidget to [this list of
issues](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22adopt+a+widget%22+no%3Aassignee).

**Don't worry if you don't get assigned**

There are plenty of other issues that can be fixed. You can also take a look for
[issues with the "d: api docs"
label](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22d%3A+api+docs%22)
that need attention.

**Be original**

Don't copy code snippets or text from other sources like StackOverflow.

## Ways to contribute {#ways-to-contribute}

Each issue specifies what type of contribution we are looking for:

* Adding code (either a [snippet](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/tree/master/dev/snippets#snippet-tool), [sample](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/tree/master/dev/snippets#sample-tool), or [DartPad](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/tree/master/dev/snippets#templates))
* Adding references (e.g. "See also")
* Adding more explanation to the documentation


### Adding code {#adding-code}
There are three ways to contribute code: a `snippet`, a `dartpad`, or a
`sample`. For more details, see the [Dartdoc Generation
README](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/tree/master/dev/snippets).

Please be cognizant that writing _sample_ code has a different goal (and some
additional constraints) compared to writing production code. Mozilla [has a good
overview](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/MDN/Guidelines/Code_guidelines#General_best_practices)
(the article is about the web, but 95% of it applies to any platform).


#### Snippets {#snippets}

Snippets can be added using the following syntax:

```dart
/// {@tool snippet}
///
/// This is a comment explaining the snippet below:
///
/// ```dart
/// MyWidget(
///   color: Colors.green,
/// )
/// ```
/// {@end-tool}
```

#### Sample {#sample}

Samples are snippets of code that are wrapped with a template, so you don't have
to write boilerplate code. The `--template` can be any of the templates found in
the snippet tool's [templates
directory](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/tree/master/dev/snippets/config/templates).

```dart
/// {@tool sample --template=stateless_widget_scaffold_center}
///
/// This is a comment explaining the snippet below:
///
/// ```dart
///  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
///    return MyWidget(
///      color: Colors.green,
///    );
///  }
/// ```
/// {@end-tool}
```

#### DartPad sample {#dartpad-sample}

To add a sample that runs in DartPad, use `{@tool dartpad}` and provide the same
templates found in the [templates
directory](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/tree/master/dev/snippets/config/templates):


```dart
/// {@tool dartpad --template=stateless_widget_material}
///
/// This is a comment explaining the snippet below:
///
/// ```dart
///  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
///    return MyWidget(
///      color: Colors.green,
///    );
///  }
/// ```
/// {@end-tool}
```

### Adding References {#adding-references}

If a Widget needs references, add a `See also:` section to the end of a widget's
documentation comment:

```dart
/// Creates a route for the given route settings.
///
/// Used by [Navigator.onGenerateRoute].
///
/// See also:
///
///  * [Navigator], which is where all the [Route]s end up.
```

### Adding more explanation to the documentation {#adding-more-explanation-to-the-documentation}

If a widget doesn't provide enough explanation, you can add more! You can
explain:

*   What it is
*   What it enables you to do
*   How to use it
*   The behavior of the widget in certain situations
*   Other important information about the widget

See the [Documentation
section](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/wiki/Style-guide-for-Flutter-repo#documentation-dartdocs-javadocs-etc)
of the Flutter Style Guide and [Effective Dart:
Documentation](https://dart.dev/guides/language/effective-dart/documentation)
for details on how to write great documentation.

## Quickstart {#quickstart}

### Get the code {#get-the-code}

To get started, fork the SDK and use Git to fetch a local copy:

1. Install dependencies listed in
   [Setting up the Framework development environment](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/wiki/Setting-up-the-Framework-development-environment)
2. Fork the flutter repo
[https://github.com/flutter/flutter](https://github.com/flutter/flutter). For
more information, see [GitHub's official
instructions](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/getting-started-with-github/fork-a-repo).
3. Clone your fork: `git clone
https://github.com/&lt;your_name_here>/flutter.git`
4. Change directory: `cd flutter`
5. Add an upstream remote: `git remote add upstream
git@github.com:flutter/flutter.git`
6. Run `flutter update-packages` to fetch all the Dart packages that Flutter
uses.


### Open the code in your IDE {#open-the-code-in-your-ide}

In IntelliJ or VSCode, open `packages/flutter`, where most of the Flutter
framework code lives.


### Make the change {#make-the-change}

Open the file listed in the issue and update the documentation comment. See
"Ways to contribute" for examples.

### Analyzing and Generating API Docs

Running this command from the root directory analyzes and generates the
documentation. This command can take up to 20 minutes to complete, so double
check your changes first. If you want, you can also [analyze
snippets](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/tree/master/dev/snippets#running-sample-analysis-locally)
directly.

```bash
./dev/bots/docs.sh
```

To view the generated docs, open `dev/docs/doc/api/index.html`.

{{site.alert.note}}
  Flutter API docs cannot be generated on Windows. If you are using
  Windows, you may need to download the Linux version of the SDK and use the
  [Windows Subsystem for
  Linux](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/about).
{{site.alert.end}}

For more information, see the [Dartdoc Generation
README](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/tree/master/dev/snippets).

### Commit the change {#commit-the-change}

Modify the documentation and commit the change:


```bash
git checkout -b update-builder-widget
git add -A
git commit -m "Update Builder API Docs"
git push origin update-builder-widget
```

### Make a Pull request {#make-a-pull-request}

Make a pull request with `AdoptAWidget: WidgetName` in the title, and fill out
this template:

```markdown
AdoptAWidget: Builder

<!-- Provide an explanation of the change -->

<!-- Specify what this pull request does -->
This pull request is:

- [x] A code sample
- [ ] More references
- [ ] More explanation

<!-- Add the AdoptAWidget issue that is assigned to you: -->
closes #1234

```

{{site.alert.note}}
  If you are a first-time contributor to this repo, you will be asked to sign
  Google's [Contributor License
  Agreement](https://cla.developers.google.com/about/google-corporate).
{{site.alert.end}}

## More resources

*   [Setting up the framework for developement](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/wiki/Setting-up-the-Framework-development-environment)
*   [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
*   [Dartdoc Generation](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/tree/master/dev/snippets)
*   [Flutter Style Guide - Documentation](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/wiki/Style-guide-for-Flutter-repo#documentation-dartdocs-javadocs-etc)
*   [Effective Dart - Documentation](https://dart.dev/guides/language/effective-dart/documentation)

Commit message:

Update Adopt a Widget contributions list

src/adoptawidget/index.md, after:

---
title: Adopt a Widget
layout: default
show_banner: False
---

<img src="/adoptawidget/images/image1.png" alt="Adopt a Widget logo" width="100%" />

Flutter is an open source project hosted [on
GitHub](https://github.com/flutter/flutter), and making the documentation better
helps everyone! So, for the month of November, we’re extending a special
invitation to contribute to the Flutter project by choosing a Widget and
improving its API documentation.

{{site.alert.note}}
Thanks to your eager participation, all of the
[issues](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/issues?q=is%3Aissue+label%3A%22adopt+a+widget%22)
have been assigned, though we are still reviewing PRs. We may do something
similar in the future, so stay tuned!
{{site.alert.end}}

## Contributions

(Updated Feb 14, 2021)

- [Chinmay-KB](https://github.com/Chinmay-KB) contributed to the [WillPopScope docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/WillPopScope-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69563))
- [chihempat](https://github.com/chihempat) contributed to the [SliverWithKeepAliveWidget docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/SliverWithKeepAliveWidget-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69557))
- [obitodarky](https://github.com/obitodarky) contributed to the [Stepper docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/material/Stepper-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/70092))
- [Sameerkash](https://github.com/Sameerkash) found an issue with the [StatusTransitionWidget docs](https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/StatusTransitionWidget-class.html) ([issue](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/issues/69558))
- [tadaspetra](https://github.com/tadaspetra) contributed to the [MaterialBanner docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/material/MaterialBanner-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69530))
- [IsmailAbdirahman](https://github.com/IsmailAbdirahman) contributed to the [NotificationListener docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/NotificationListener-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69524))
- [Aneesh Rao](https://github.com/sidrao2006) contributed to the [CircularProgressIndicator docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/material/CircularProgressIndicator-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69498))
- [Abhishek Ghaskata](https://github.com/Abhishek01039) contributed to the [Hero docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/Hero-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/74415))
- [singhsuryanshu](https://github.com/singhsuryanshu) contributed to the [FittedBox docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/FittedBox-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69503))
- [parzuko](https://github.com/parzuko) contributed to the [Draggable docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/Draggable-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69527))
- [Oscar Robles](https://github.com/oroblesr) contributed to the [ActionListener docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/ActionListener-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69717))
- [arps18](https://github.com/arps18) contributed to the [Shortcuts docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/Shortcuts-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69568))
- [Sanjoli Goyal](https://github.com/sanjoli63) contributed to the [ReorderableListView docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/material/ReorderableListView-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69650))
- [Amitpatil215](https://github.com/Amitpatil215) contributed to the [AspectRatio docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/AspectRatio-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69509))
- [CaptainIRS](https://github.com/CaptainIRS) contributed to the [AbsorbPointer docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/AbsorbPointer-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69521))
- [Yazeed AlKhalaf](https://github.com/YazeedAlKhalaf) contributed to the [IgnorePointer docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/IgnorePointer-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/70185))
- [abd99](https://github.com/abd99) contributed to the [Dismissible docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/Dismissible-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69535))
- [Mitesh Singh](https://github.com/singhmitesh) contributed to the [PageView docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/PageView-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/71174))
- [redsolver](https://github.com/redsolver) contributed to the [Table docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/Table-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69588))
- [tsvillain](https://github.com/tsvillain) contributed to the [Tooltip docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/material/Tooltip-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69518))
- [Thesmader](https://github.com/Thesmader) contributed to the [SnackBar docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/material/SnackBar-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69555))
- [Muskan Jain](https://github.com/Muskan4010) contributed to the [ColorFiltered docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/ColorFiltered-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/71093))
- [Sergio Eric](https://github.com/SergioEric) contributed to the [PreferredSizeWidget docs](https://master-api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/PreferredSizeWidget-class.html) ([pull request](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/pull/69539))


## How to contribute {#how-to-contribute}

1. Go to [this list of
issues](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22adopt+a+widget%22+no%3Aassignee)
and choose an issue. You can only be assigned one Adopt A Widget issue at a
time, so pick your favorite!
2. Leave a comment on the issue, asking to be assigned. The first person to
respond will be assigned. For example:
<img src="/adoptawidget/images/image2.png" alt="Ask to be assigned" width="100%" />
3. Once you are assigned, set up your environment, make the change, and submit
the pull request. If you're not sure how to do this, see the
[Quickstart](#quickstart) below.

The
[CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
doc has details on contributing to Flutter.

## Discord {#discord}

Join the [#AdoptAWidget channel on the Flutter Discord
server](https://discord.com/channels/608014603317936148/771798504355528704) to
ask questions and get help.

## Guidelines

**Wait to be assigned**

If you aren't assigned to the issue, let the assignee fix it. Don't submit a
pull request for someone else's issue.

**Respond within three days after being assigned**

If we don't hear back from you, we might need to assign it to someone else.

**One issue at a time**

If you're already working on an issue, wait until it's closed before requesting
another.

**Don't create "Adopt A Widget" issues**

We are limiting AdoptAWidget to [this list of
issues](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22adopt+a+widget%22+no%3Aassignee).

**Don't worry if you don't get assigned**

There are plenty of other issues that can be fixed. You can also take a look for
[issues with the "d: api docs"
label](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22d%3A+api+docs%22)
that need attention.

**Be original**

Don't copy code snippets or text from other sources like StackOverflow.

## Ways to contribute {#ways-to-contribute}

Each issue specifies what type of contribution we are looking for:

* Adding code (either a [snippet](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/tree/master/dev/snippets#snippet-tool), [sample](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/tree/master/dev/snippets#sample-tool), or [DartPad](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/tree/master/dev/snippets#templates))
* Adding references (e.g. "See also")
* Adding more explanation to the documentation


### Adding code {#adding-code}
There are three ways to contribute code: a `snippet`, a `dartpad`, or a
`sample`. For more details, see the [Dartdoc Generation
README](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/tree/master/dev/snippets).

Please be cognizant that writing _sample_ code has a different goal (and some
additional constraints) compared to writing production code. Mozilla [has a good
overview](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/MDN/Guidelines/Code_guidelines#General_best_practices)
(the article is about the web, but 95% of it applies to any platform).


#### Snippets {#snippets}

Snippets can be added using the following syntax:

```dart
/// {@tool snippet}
///
/// This is a comment explaining the snippet below:
///
/// ```dart
/// MyWidget(
///   color: Colors.green,
/// )
/// ```
/// {@end-tool}
```

#### Sample {#sample}

Samples are snippets of code that are wrapped with a template, so you don't have
to write boilerplate code. The `--template` can be any of the templates found in
the snippet tool's [templates
directory](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/tree/master/dev/snippets/config/templates).

```dart
/// {@tool sample --template=stateless_widget_scaffold_center}
///
/// This is a comment explaining the snippet below:
///
/// ```dart
///  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
///    return MyWidget(
///      color: Colors.green,
///    );
///  }
/// ```
/// {@end-tool}
```

#### DartPad sample {#dartpad-sample}

To add a sample that runs in DartPad, use `{@tool dartpad}` and provide the same
templates found in the [templates
directory](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/tree/master/dev/snippets/config/templates):


```dart
/// {@tool dartpad --template=stateless_widget_material}
///
/// This is a comment explaining the snippet below:
///
/// ```dart
///  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
///    return MyWidget(
///      color: Colors.green,
///    );
///  }
/// ```
/// {@end-tool}
```

### Adding References {#adding-references}

If a Widget needs references, add a `See also:` section to the end of a widget's
documentation comment:

```dart
/// Creates a route for the given route settings.
///
/// Used by [Navigator.onGenerateRoute].
///
/// See also:
///
///  * [Navigator], which is where all the [Route]s end up.
```

### Adding more explanation to the documentation {#adding-more-explanation-to-the-documentation}

If a widget doesn't provide enough explanation, you can add more! You can
explain:

*   What it is
*   What it enables you to do
*   How to use it
*   The behavior of the widget in certain situations
*   Other important information about the widget

See the [Documentation
section](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/wiki/Style-guide-for-Flutter-repo#documentation-dartdocs-javadocs-etc)
of the Flutter Style Guide and [Effective Dart:
Documentation](https://dart.dev/guides/language/effective-dart/documentation)
for details on how to write great documentation.

## Quickstart {#quickstart}

### Get the code {#get-the-code}

To get started, fork the SDK and use Git to fetch a local copy:

1. Install dependencies listed in
   [Setting up the Framework development environment](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/wiki/Setting-up-the-Framework-development-environment)
2. Fork the flutter repo
[https://github.com/flutter/flutter](https://github.com/flutter/flutter). For
more information, see [GitHub's official
instructions](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/getting-started-with-github/fork-a-repo).
3. Clone your fork: `git clone
https://github.com/&lt;your_name_here>/flutter.git`
4. Change directory: `cd flutter`
5. Add an upstream remote: `git remote add upstream
git@github.com:flutter/flutter.git`
6. Run `flutter update-packages` to fetch all the Dart packages that Flutter
uses.


### Open the code in your IDE {#open-the-code-in-your-ide}

In IntelliJ or VSCode, open `packages/flutter`, where most of the Flutter
framework code lives.


### Make the change {#make-the-change}

Open the file listed in the issue and update the documentation comment. See
"Ways to contribute" for examples.

### Analyzing and Generating API Docs

Running this command from the root directory analyzes and generates the
documentation. This command can take up to 20 minutes to complete, so double
check your changes first. If you want, you can also [analyze
snippets](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/tree/master/dev/snippets#running-sample-analysis-locally)
directly.

```bash
./dev/bots/docs.sh
```

To view the generated docs, open `dev/docs/doc/api/index.html`.

{{site.alert.note}}
  Flutter API docs cannot be generated on Windows. If you are using
  Windows, you may need to download the Linux version of the SDK and use the
  [Windows Subsystem for
  Linux](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/about).
{{site.alert.end}}

For more information, see the [Dartdoc Generation
README](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/tree/master/dev/snippets).

### Commit the change {#commit-the-change}

Modify the documentation and commit the change:


```bash
git checkout -b update-builder-widget
git add -A
git commit -m "Update Builder API Docs"
git push origin update-builder-widget
```

### Make a Pull request {#make-a-pull-request}

Make a pull request with `AdoptAWidget: WidgetName` in the title, and fill out
this template:

```markdown
AdoptAWidget: Builder

<!-- Provide an explanation of the change -->

<!-- Specify what this pull request does -->
This pull request is:

- [x] A code sample
- [ ] More references
- [ ] More explanation

<!-- Add the AdoptAWidget issue that is assigned to you: -->
closes #1234

```

{{site.alert.note}}
  If you are a first-time contributor to this repo, you will be asked to sign
  Google's [Contributor License
  Agreement](https://cla.developers.google.com/about/google-corporate).
{{site.alert.end}}

## More resources

*   [Setting up the framework for developement](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/wiki/Setting-up-the-Framework-development-environment)
*   [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
*   [Dartdoc Generation](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/tree/master/dev/snippets)
*   [Flutter Style Guide - Documentation](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/wiki/Style-guide-for-Flutter-repo#documentation-dartdocs-javadocs-etc)
*   [Effective Dart - Documentation](https://dart.dev/guides/language/effective-dart/documentation)
