src/docs/development/packages-and-plugins/using-packages.md, before:

---
title: Using packages
description: How to use packages in your Flutter app.
---

Flutter supports using shared packages contributed by other developers
to the Flutter and Dart ecosystems. This allows quickly building
an app without having to develop everything from scratch.

Existing packages enable many use cases for example,
making network requests ([`http`][]),
custom navigation/route handling ([`fluro`][]),
integration with device APIs
([`url_launcher`][] and [`battery`][]),
and using third-party platform SDKs like Firebase
([FlutterFire][]).

To write a new package, see [developing packages][].
To add assets, images or fonts,
whether stored in files or packages,
see [Adding assets and images][].

## Using packages

The following section describes how to use
existing published packages.

### Searching for packages

Packages are published to [pub.dev][].

The [Flutter landing page][] on pub.dev displays
top packages that are compatible with Flutter
(those that declare dependencies generally compatible with Flutter),
and supports searching among all published packages.

The [Flutter Favorites][] page on pub.dev lists
the plugins and packages that have been identified as
packages you should first consider using when writing
your app. For more information on what it means to
be a Flutter Favorite, see the
[Flutter Favorites program][].

You can also browse the packages on pub.dev by filtering
on [Android plugins][], [iOS plugins][], [web plugins][],
or any combination thereof.

### Adding a package dependency to an app

To add the package, `css_colors`, to an app:

1. Depend on it
   * Open the `pubspec.yaml` file located inside the app folder,
     and add `css_colors:` under `dependencies`.

1. Install it
   * From the terminal: Run `flutter pub get`.<br/>
   **OR**
   * From Android Studio/IntelliJ: Click **Packages get** in the action
     ribbon at the top of `pubspec.yaml`.
   * From VS Code: Click **Get Packages** located in right side of the action
     ribbon at the top of `pubspec.yaml`.

1. Import it
   * Add a corresponding `import` statement in the Dart code.

1. Stop and restart the app, if necessary
   * If the package brings platform-specific code
     (Kotlin/Java for Android, Swift/Objective-C for iOS),
     that code must be built into your app.
     Hot reload and hot restart only update the Dart code,
     so a full restart of the app might be required to avoid
     errors like `MissingPluginException` when using the package.

The [Installing tab][],
available on any package page on pub.dev,
is a handy reference for these steps.

For a complete example,
see the [css_colors example][] below.

### Conflict resolution

Suppose you want to use `some_package` and
`another_package` in an app,
and both of these depend on `url_launcher`,
but in different versions.
That causes a potential conflict.
The best way to avoid this is for package authors to use
[version ranges][] rather than specific versions when
specifying dependencies.

```yaml
dependencies:
  url_launcher: ^5.4.0    # Good, any 5.4.x version where x >= 0 works.
  image_picker: '5.4.3'   # Not so good, only version 5.4.3 works.
```

If `some_package` declares the dependencies above
and `another_package` declares a compatible
`url_launcher` dependency like `'5.4.6'` or
`^5.5.0`, `pub` resolves the issue automatically.
Platform-specific dependencies on
[Gradle modules][] and/or [CocoaPods][]
are solved in a similar way.

Even if `some_package` and `another_package`
declare incompatible versions for `url_launcher`,
they might actually use `url_launcher` in
compatible ways. In this situation,
the conflict can be resolved by adding
a dependency override declaration to the app's
`pubspec.yaml` file, forcing the use of a particular version.

For example, to force the use of `url_launcher` version `5.4.0`,
make the following changes to the app's `pubspec.yaml` file:

```yaml
dependencies:
  some_package:
  another_package:
dependency_overrides:
  url_launcher: '5.4.0'
```

If the conflicting dependency is not itself a package,
but an Android-specific library like `guava`,
the dependency override declaration must be added to
Gradle build logic instead.

To force the use of `guava` version `28.0`, make the following
changes to the app's `android/build.gradle` file:

```groovy
configurations.all {
    resolutionStrategy {
        force 'com.google.guava:guava:28.0-android'
    }
}
```

CocoaPods does not currently offer dependency
override functionality.

## Developing new packages

If no package exists for your specific use case,
you can [write a custom package][].

## Managing package dependencies and versions

To minimize the risk of version collisions,
specify a version range in the `pubspec.yaml` file.

### Package versions

All packages have a version number, specified in the
package's `pubspec.yaml` file. The current version of a package
is displayed next to its name (for example,
see the [`url_launcher`][] package), as
well as a list of all prior versions
(see [`url_launcher` versions][]).

When a package is added to `pubspec.yaml`,
the shorthand form `plugin1:` means that any
version of the plugin1 package can be used.
To ensure that the app doesn't break when a
package is updated,
specify a version range using one of the
following formats:

* Range constraints: Specify a minimum and maximum version. For example:

  ```yaml
  dependencies:
    url_launcher: '>=5.4.0 <6.0.0'
  ```

* Range constraints with [*caret syntax*][]
  are similar to regular range constraints:

  ```yaml
  dependencies:
    collection: '^5.4.0'
  ```

For additional details,
see the [package versioning guide][].

### Updating package dependencies

When running `flutter pub get` (**Packages get** in IntelliJ
or Android Studio) for the first time after adding a package,
Flutter saves the concrete package version found in the `pubspec.lock`
[lockfile][]. This ensures that you get the same version again
if you, or another developer on your team, run `flutter pub get`.

To upgrade to a new version of the package,
for example to use new features in that package,
run `flutter pub upgrade`
(**Upgrade dependencies** in IntelliJ or Android Studio)
to retrieve the highest available version of the package
that is allowed by the version constraint specified in
`pubspec.yaml`.
Note that this is a different command from
`flutter upgrade` or `flutter update-packages`,
which both update Flutter itself.

### Dependencies on unpublished packages

Packages can be used even when not published on pub.dev.
For private plugins, or for packages not ready for publishing,
additional dependency options are available:

**Path dependency**
: A Flutter app can depend on a plugin via a file system
  `path:` dependency. The path can be either relative or absolute.
  Relative paths are evaluated relative to the directory containing `pubspec.yaml`.
  For example, to depend on a plugin `plugin1` located in a directory
  next to the app, use the following syntax:

  ```yaml
  dependencies:
    plugin1:
      path: ../plugin1/
  ```

**Git dependency**
: You can also depend on a package stored in a Git repository.
  If the package is located at the root of the repo,
  use the following syntax:

  ```yaml
  dependencies:
    plugin1:
      git:
        url: git://github.com/flutter/plugin1.git
  ```

**Git dependency on a package in a folder**
: The pub tool assumes the package is located in
  the root of the Git repository. If that is not
  the case, specify the location with the `path` argument.
  For example:

  ```yaml
  dependencies:
    package1:
      git:
        url: git://github.com/flutter/packages.git
        path: packages/package1
  ```

  Finally, use the `ref` argument to pin the dependency to a
  specific git commit, branch, or tag. For more details, see
  [Package dependencies][].

## Examples

The following examples walk through the necessary steps for
using packages.

### Example: Using the css_colors package {#css-example}

The [`css_colors`][] package
defines color constants for CSS colors, so use the constants
wherever the Flutter framework expects the `Color` type.

To use this package:

1. Create a new project called `cssdemo`.

1. Open `pubspec.yaml`, and add the `css-colors` dependency:

   ```yaml
   dependencies:
     flutter:
       sdk: flutter
     css_colors: ^1.0.0
   ```

1. Run `flutter pub get` in the terminal, or click **Packages get** in
   IntelliJ or Android Studio.

1. Open `lib/main.dart` and replace its full contents with:

    ```dart
    import 'package:css_colors/css_colors.dart';
    import 'package:flutter/material.dart';

    void main() {
      runApp(MyApp());
    }

    class MyApp extends StatelessWidget {
      @override
      Widget build(BuildContext context) {
        return MaterialApp(
          home: DemoPage(),
        );
      }
    }

    class DemoPage extends StatelessWidget {
      @override
      Widget build(BuildContext context) {
        return Scaffold(body: Container(color: CSSColors.orange));
      }
    }
    ```

1. Run the app. The app's background should now be orange.


### Example: Using the url_launcher package to launch the browser {#url-example}

The [`url_launcher`][] plugin package enables opening
the default browser on the mobile platform to display
a given URL, and is supported on Android, iOS, web, and macos.
This package is a special Dart package called a
_plugin package_ (or _plugin_),
which includes platform-specific code.

To use this plugin:

1. Create a new project called `launchdemo`.

1. Open `pubspec.yaml`, and add the `url_launcher` dependency:

   ```yaml
   dependencies:
     flutter:
       sdk: flutter
     url_launcher: ^5.4.0
   ```

1. Run `flutter pub get` in the terminal,
   or click **Packages get** in
   IntelliJ or Android Studio.

1. Open `lib/main.dart` and replace its full contents with the
   following:

    ```dart
    import 'package:flutter/material.dart';
    import 'package:url_launcher/url_launcher.dart';

    void main() {
      runApp(MyApp());
    }

    class MyApp extends StatelessWidget {
      @override
      Widget build(BuildContext context) {
        return MaterialApp(
          home: DemoPage(),
        );
      }
    }

    class DemoPage extends StatelessWidget {
      launchURL() {
        launch('https://flutter.dev');
      }

      @override
      Widget build(BuildContext context) {
        return Scaffold(
          body: Center(
            child: ElevatedButton(
              onPressed: launchURL,
              child: Text('Show Flutter homepage'),
            ),
          ),
        );
      }
    }
    ```

1. Run the app (or stop and restart it, if it was already running
   before adding the plugin). Click **Show Flutter homepage**.
   You should see the default browser open on the device,
   displaying the homepage for flutter.dev.


[Adding assets and images]: /docs/development/ui/assets-and-images
[Android plugins]: {{site.pub}}/flutter/packages?platform=android
[`battery`]: {{site.pub-pkg}}/battery
[*caret syntax*]: {{site.dart-site}}/tools/pub/dependencies#caret-syntax
[CocoaPods]: https://guides.cocoapods.org/syntax/podspec.html#dependency
[`css_colors`]: {{site.pub-pkg}}/css_colors
[css_colors example]: #css-example
[write a custom package]: /docs/development/packages-and-plugins/developing-packages
[developing packages]: /docs/development/packages-and-plugins/developing-packages
[`fluro`]: {{site.pub-pkg}}/fluro
[Flutter Favorites]: {{site.pub}}/flutter/favorites
[Flutter Favorites program]: /docs/development/packages-and-plugins/favorites
[Flutter landing page]: {{site.pub}}/flutter
[FlutterFire]: {{site.github}}/flutter/plugins/blob/master/FlutterFire.md
[Gradle modules]: https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/declaring_dependencies.html
[`http`]: /docs/cookbook/networking/fetch-data
[Installing tab]: {{site.pub-pkg}}/css_colors/install
[iOS plugins]: {{site.pub}}/flutter/packages?platform=ios
[lockfile]: {{site.dart-site}}/tools/pub/glossary#lockfile
[Package dependencies]: {{site.dart-site}}/tools/pub/dependencies
[package versioning guide]: {{site.dart-site}}/tools/pub/versioning
[pub.dev]: {{site.pub}}
[`url_launcher`]: {{site.pub-pkg}}/url_launcher
[`url_launcher` versions]: {{site.pub-pkg}}/url_launcher/versions
[version ranges]: {{site.dart-site}}/tools/pub/dependencies#version-constraints
[web plugins]: {{site.pub}}/flutter/packages?platform=web

Commit message:

difference of plugins and packages added.

src/docs/development/packages-and-plugins/using-packages.md, after:

---
title: Using packages
description: How to use packages in your Flutter app.
---

**Plugin**
A plugin is ready to use software component that can be added to existing 
software for more features. It is about making native functionality 
available to Flutter.

**Package**
A package is about integrating Flutter with an existing native application.

**Difference** between packages and plugins:

1. Packages are usually new components or code written purely in Dart
whereas plugins work to allow more functionality on the device side 
using native code. 
2. Plugins are downloaded and integrated into the existing software without
the need to compile/build. 

Flutter supports using shared packages contributed by other developers
to the Flutter and Dart ecosystems. This allows quickly building
an app without having to develop everything from scratch.

Existing packages enable many use cases for example,
making network requests ([`http`][]),
custom navigation/route handling ([`fluro`][]),
integration with device APIs
([`url_launcher`][] and [`battery`][]),
and using third-party platform SDKs like Firebase
([FlutterFire][]).

To write a new package, see [developing packages][].
To add assets, images or fonts,
whether stored in files or packages,
see [Adding assets and images][].

## Using packages

The following section describes how to use
existing published packages.

### Searching for packages

Packages are published to [pub.dev][].

The [Flutter landing page][] on pub.dev displays
top packages that are compatible with Flutter
(those that declare dependencies generally compatible with Flutter),
and supports searching among all published packages.

The [Flutter Favorites][] page on pub.dev lists
the plugins and packages that have been identified as
packages you should first consider using when writing
your app. For more information on what it means to
be a Flutter Favorite, see the
[Flutter Favorites program][].

You can also browse the packages on pub.dev by filtering
on [Android plugins][], [iOS plugins][], [web plugins][],
or any combination thereof.

### Adding a package dependency to an app

To add the package, `css_colors`, to an app:

1. Depend on it
   * Open the `pubspec.yaml` file located inside the app folder,
     and add `css_colors:` under `dependencies`.

1. Install it
   * From the terminal: Run `flutter pub get`.<br/>
   **OR**
   * From Android Studio/IntelliJ: Click **Packages get** in the action
     ribbon at the top of `pubspec.yaml`.
   * From VS Code: Click **Get Packages** located in right side of the action
     ribbon at the top of `pubspec.yaml`.

1. Import it
   * Add a corresponding `import` statement in the Dart code.

1. Stop and restart the app, if necessary
   * If the package brings platform-specific code
     (Kotlin/Java for Android, Swift/Objective-C for iOS),
     that code must be built into your app.
     Hot reload and hot restart only update the Dart code,
     so a full restart of the app might be required to avoid
     errors like `MissingPluginException` when using the package.

The [Installing tab][],
available on any package page on pub.dev,
is a handy reference for these steps.

For a complete example,
see the [css_colors example][] below.

### Conflict resolution

Suppose you want to use `some_package` and
`another_package` in an app,
and both of these depend on `url_launcher`,
but in different versions.
That causes a potential conflict.
The best way to avoid this is for package authors to use
[version ranges][] rather than specific versions when
specifying dependencies.

```yaml
dependencies:
  url_launcher: ^5.4.0    # Good, any 5.4.x version where x >= 0 works.
  image_picker: '5.4.3'   # Not so good, only version 5.4.3 works.
```

If `some_package` declares the dependencies above
and `another_package` declares a compatible
`url_launcher` dependency like `'5.4.6'` or
`^5.5.0`, `pub` resolves the issue automatically.
Platform-specific dependencies on
[Gradle modules][] and/or [CocoaPods][]
are solved in a similar way.

Even if `some_package` and `another_package`
declare incompatible versions for `url_launcher`,
they might actually use `url_launcher` in
compatible ways. In this situation,
the conflict can be resolved by adding
a dependency override declaration to the app's
`pubspec.yaml` file, forcing the use of a particular version.

For example, to force the use of `url_launcher` version `5.4.0`,
make the following changes to the app's `pubspec.yaml` file:

```yaml
dependencies:
  some_package:
  another_package:
dependency_overrides:
  url_launcher: '5.4.0'
```

If the conflicting dependency is not itself a package,
but an Android-specific library like `guava`,
the dependency override declaration must be added to
Gradle build logic instead.

To force the use of `guava` version `28.0`, make the following
changes to the app's `android/build.gradle` file:

```groovy
configurations.all {
    resolutionStrategy {
        force 'com.google.guava:guava:28.0-android'
    }
}
```

CocoaPods does not currently offer dependency
override functionality.

## Developing new packages

If no package exists for your specific use case,
you can [write a custom package][].

## Managing package dependencies and versions

To minimize the risk of version collisions,
specify a version range in the `pubspec.yaml` file.

### Package versions

All packages have a version number, specified in the
package's `pubspec.yaml` file. The current version of a package
is displayed next to its name (for example,
see the [`url_launcher`][] package), as
well as a list of all prior versions
(see [`url_launcher` versions][]).

When a package is added to `pubspec.yaml`,
the shorthand form `plugin1:` means that any
version of the plugin1 package can be used.
To ensure that the app doesn't break when a
package is updated,
specify a version range using one of the
following formats:

* Range constraints: Specify a minimum and maximum version. For example:

  ```yaml
  dependencies:
    url_launcher: '>=5.4.0 <6.0.0'
  ```

* Range constraints with [*caret syntax*][]
  are similar to regular range constraints:

  ```yaml
  dependencies:
    collection: '^5.4.0'
  ```

For additional details,
see the [package versioning guide][].

### Updating package dependencies

When running `flutter pub get` (**Packages get** in IntelliJ
or Android Studio) for the first time after adding a package,
Flutter saves the concrete package version found in the `pubspec.lock`
[lockfile][]. This ensures that you get the same version again
if you, or another developer on your team, run `flutter pub get`.

To upgrade to a new version of the package,
for example to use new features in that package,
run `flutter pub upgrade`
(**Upgrade dependencies** in IntelliJ or Android Studio)
to retrieve the highest available version of the package
that is allowed by the version constraint specified in
`pubspec.yaml`.
Note that this is a different command from
`flutter upgrade` or `flutter update-packages`,
which both update Flutter itself.

### Dependencies on unpublished packages

Packages can be used even when not published on pub.dev.
For private plugins, or for packages not ready for publishing,
additional dependency options are available:

**Path dependency**
: A Flutter app can depend on a plugin via a file system
  `path:` dependency. The path can be either relative or absolute.
  Relative paths are evaluated relative to the directory containing `pubspec.yaml`.
  For example, to depend on a plugin `plugin1` located in a directory
  next to the app, use the following syntax:

  ```yaml
  dependencies:
    plugin1:
      path: ../plugin1/
  ```

**Git dependency**
: You can also depend on a package stored in a Git repository.
  If the package is located at the root of the repo,
  use the following syntax:

  ```yaml
  dependencies:
    plugin1:
      git:
        url: git://github.com/flutter/plugin1.git
  ```

**Git dependency on a package in a folder**
: The pub tool assumes the package is located in
  the root of the Git repository. If that is not
  the case, specify the location with the `path` argument.
  For example:

  ```yaml
  dependencies:
    package1:
      git:
        url: git://github.com/flutter/packages.git
        path: packages/package1
  ```

  Finally, use the `ref` argument to pin the dependency to a
  specific git commit, branch, or tag. For more details, see
  [Package dependencies][].

## Examples

The following examples walk through the necessary steps for
using packages.

### Example: Using the css_colors package {#css-example}

The [`css_colors`][] package
defines color constants for CSS colors, so use the constants
wherever the Flutter framework expects the `Color` type.

To use this package:

1. Create a new project called `cssdemo`.

1. Open `pubspec.yaml`, and add the `css-colors` dependency:

   ```yaml
   dependencies:
     flutter:
       sdk: flutter
     css_colors: ^1.0.0
   ```

1. Run `flutter pub get` in the terminal, or click **Packages get** in
   IntelliJ or Android Studio.

1. Open `lib/main.dart` and replace its full contents with:

    ```dart
    import 'package:css_colors/css_colors.dart';
    import 'package:flutter/material.dart';

    void main() {
      runApp(MyApp());
    }

    class MyApp extends StatelessWidget {
      @override
      Widget build(BuildContext context) {
        return MaterialApp(
          home: DemoPage(),
        );
      }
    }

    class DemoPage extends StatelessWidget {
      @override
      Widget build(BuildContext context) {
        return Scaffold(body: Container(color: CSSColors.orange));
      }
    }
    ```

1. Run the app. The app's background should now be orange.


### Example: Using the url_launcher package to launch the browser {#url-example}

The [`url_launcher`][] plugin package enables opening
the default browser on the mobile platform to display
a given URL, and is supported on Android, iOS, web, and macos.
This package is a special Dart package called a
_plugin package_ (or _plugin_),
which includes platform-specific code.

To use this plugin:

1. Create a new project called `launchdemo`.

1. Open `pubspec.yaml`, and add the `url_launcher` dependency:

   ```yaml
   dependencies:
     flutter:
       sdk: flutter
     url_launcher: ^5.4.0
   ```

1. Run `flutter pub get` in the terminal,
   or click **Packages get** in
   IntelliJ or Android Studio.

1. Open `lib/main.dart` and replace its full contents with the
   following:

    ```dart
    import 'package:flutter/material.dart';
    import 'package:url_launcher/url_launcher.dart';

    void main() {
      runApp(MyApp());
    }

    class MyApp extends StatelessWidget {
      @override
      Widget build(BuildContext context) {
        return MaterialApp(
          home: DemoPage(),
        );
      }
    }

    class DemoPage extends StatelessWidget {
      launchURL() {
        launch('https://flutter.dev');
      }

      @override
      Widget build(BuildContext context) {
        return Scaffold(
          body: Center(
            child: ElevatedButton(
              onPressed: launchURL,
              child: Text('Show Flutter homepage'),
            ),
          ),
        );
      }
    }
    ```

1. Run the app (or stop and restart it, if it was already running
   before adding the plugin). Click **Show Flutter homepage**.
   You should see the default browser open on the device,
   displaying the homepage for flutter.dev.


[Adding assets and images]: /docs/development/ui/assets-and-images
[Android plugins]: {{site.pub}}/flutter/packages?platform=android
[`battery`]: {{site.pub-pkg}}/battery
[*caret syntax*]: {{site.dart-site}}/tools/pub/dependencies#caret-syntax
[CocoaPods]: https://guides.cocoapods.org/syntax/podspec.html#dependency
[`css_colors`]: {{site.pub-pkg}}/css_colors
[css_colors example]: #css-example
[write a custom package]: /docs/development/packages-and-plugins/developing-packages
[developing packages]: /docs/development/packages-and-plugins/developing-packages
[`fluro`]: {{site.pub-pkg}}/fluro
[Flutter Favorites]: {{site.pub}}/flutter/favorites
[Flutter Favorites program]: /docs/development/packages-and-plugins/favorites
[Flutter landing page]: {{site.pub}}/flutter
[FlutterFire]: {{site.github}}/flutter/plugins/blob/master/FlutterFire.md
[Gradle modules]: https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/declaring_dependencies.html
[`http`]: /docs/cookbook/networking/fetch-data
[Installing tab]: {{site.pub-pkg}}/css_colors/install
[iOS plugins]: {{site.pub}}/flutter/packages?platform=ios
[lockfile]: {{site.dart-site}}/tools/pub/glossary#lockfile
[Package dependencies]: {{site.dart-site}}/tools/pub/dependencies
[package versioning guide]: {{site.dart-site}}/tools/pub/versioning
[pub.dev]: {{site.pub}}
[`url_launcher`]: {{site.pub-pkg}}/url_launcher
[`url_launcher` versions]: {{site.pub-pkg}}/url_launcher/versions
[version ranges]: {{site.dart-site}}/tools/pub/dependencies#version-constraints
[web plugins]: {{site.pub}}/flutter/packages?platform=web
