src/development/add-to-app/android/project-setup.md, before:

---
title: Integrate a Flutter module into your Android project
short-title: Integrate Flutter
description: Learn how to integrate a Flutter module into your existing Android project.
---

Flutter can be embedded into your existing Android
application piecemeal, as a source code Gradle
subproject or as AARs.

The integration flow can be done using the Android Studio
IDE with the [Flutter plugin][] or manually.

{{site.alert.warning}}
  Your existing Android app may support architectures such as `mips`
  or `x86`. Flutter currently [only supports][]
  building ahead-of-time (AOT) compiled libraries
  for `x86_64`, `armeabi-v7a` and `arm64-v8a`.

  Consider using the [`abiFilters`][] Android Gradle
  Plugin API to limit the supported architectures in your APK.
  Doing this avoids a missing `libflutter.so` runtime crash,
  for example:

<!--code-excerpt "MyApp/app/build.gradle" title-->
```gradle
android {
  //...
  defaultConfig {
    ndk {
      // Filter for architectures supported by Flutter.
      abiFilters 'armeabi-v7a', 'arm64-v8a', 'x86_64'
    }
  }
}
```

  The Flutter engine has an `x86` and `x86_64` version.
  When using an emulator in debug Just-In-Time (JIT) mode,
  the Flutter module still runs correctly.
{{site.alert.end}}

## Using Android Studio

The Android Studio IDE is a convenient way of integrating
your Flutter module automatically. With Android Studio,
you can co-edit both your Android code and your Flutter code
in the same project. You can also continue to use your normal
IntelliJ Flutter plugin functionalities such as Dart code
completion, hot reload, and widget inspector.

Add-to-app flows with Android Studio are only supported on
Android Studio 3.6 with version 42+ of the [Flutter plugin][]
for IntelliJ. The Android Studio integration also only
supports integrating using a source code Gradle subproject,
rather than using AARs. See below for more details on
the distinction.

Using the **File > New > New Module...** menu in
Android Studio in your existing Android project,
you can either create a new Flutter module to integrate,
or select an existing Flutter module that was created previously.

{% include docs/app-figure.md image="development/add-to-app/android/project-setup/ide-new-module.png" %}

If you create a new module, you can use a wizard to
select the module name, location, and so on.

{% include docs/app-figure.md image="development/add-to-app/android/project-setup/ide-wizard.png" %}

The Android Studio plugin automatically configures your
Android project to add your Flutter module as a dependency,
and your app is ready to build.

{{site.alert.note}}
  To see the changes that were automatically made to your
  Android project by the IDE plugin, consider using
  source control for your Android project before performing
  any steps. A local diff shows the changes.
{{site.alert.end}}

{{site.alert.tip}}
  By default, your project's Project pane is probably
  showing the 'Android' view. If you can't see your new
  Flutter files in the Project pane, ensure that
  your Project pane is set to display 'Project Files',
  which shows all files without filtering.
{{site.alert.end}}

Your app now includes the Flutter module as a dependency.
You can jump to the [Adding a Flutter screen to an Android app][]
to follow the next steps.

## Manual integration

To integrate a Flutter module with an existing Android app
manually, without using Flutter's Android Studio plugin,
follow these steps:

### Create a Flutter module

Let's assume that you have an existing Android app at
`some/path/MyApp`, and that you want your Flutter
project as a sibling:

```terminal
$ cd some/path/
$ flutter create -t module --org com.example my_flutter
```

This creates a `some/path/my_flutter/` Flutter module project
with some Dart code to get you started and an `.android/`
hidden subfolder. The `.android` folder contains an
Android project that can both help you run a barebones
standalone version of your Flutter module via `flutter run`
and it's also a wrapper that helps bootstrap the Flutter
module an embeddable Android library.

{{site.alert.note}}
  Add custom Android code to your own existing
  application's project or a plugin,
  not to the module in `.android/`.
  Changes made in your module's `.android/`
  directory won't appear in your existing Android
  project using the module.

  Do not source control the `.android/` directory
  since it's autogenerated. Before building the
  module on a new machine, run `flutter pub get`
  in the `my_flutter` directory first to regenerate
  the `.android/` directory before building the
  Android project using the Flutter module.
{{site.alert.end}}

{{site.alert.note}}
  To avoid Dex merging issues, `flutter.androidPackage` should not be identical to your host app's package name
{{site.alert.end}}

### Java 8 requirement

The Flutter Android engine uses Java 8 features.

Before attempting to connect your Flutter module project
to your host Android app, ensure that your host Android
app declares the following source compatibility within your
app's `build.gradle` file, under the `android { }`
block, such as:

<!--code-excerpt "MyApp/app/build.gradle" title-->
```gradle
android {
  //...
  compileOptions {
    sourceCompatibility 1.8
    targetCompatibility 1.8
  }
}
```

### Add the Flutter module as a dependency

Next, add the Flutter module as a dependency of your
existing app in Gradle. There are two ways to achieve this.
The AAR mechanism creates generic Android AARs as
intermediaries that packages your Flutter module.
This is good when your downstream app builders don't
want to have the Flutter SDK installed. But,
it adds one more build step if you build frequently.

The source code subproject mechanism is a convenient
one-click build process, but requires the Flutter SDK.
This is the mechanism used by the Android Studio IDE plugin.

#### Option A - Depend on the Android Archive (AAR)

This option packages your Flutter library as a generic local
Maven repository composed of AARs and POMs artifacts.
This option allows your team to build the host app without
installing the Flutter SDK. You can then distribute the
artifacts from a local or remote repository.

Let's assume you built a Flutter module at
`some/path/my_flutter`, and then run:

```terminal
$ cd some/path/my_flutter
$ flutter build aar
```

Then, follow the on-screen instructions to integrate.

{% include docs/app-figure.md image="development/add-to-app/android/project-setup/build-aar-instructions.png" %}

More specifically, this command creates
(by default all debug/profile/release modes)
a [local repository][], with the following files:

```text
build/host/outputs/repo
└── com
    └── example
        └── my_flutter
            ├── flutter_release
            │   ├── 1.0
            │   │   ├── flutter_release-1.0.aar
            │   │   ├── flutter_release-1.0.aar.md5
            │   │   ├── flutter_release-1.0.aar.sha1
            │   │   ├── flutter_release-1.0.pom
            │   │   ├── flutter_release-1.0.pom.md5
            │   │   └── flutter_release-1.0.pom.sha1
            │   ├── maven-metadata.xml
            │   ├── maven-metadata.xml.md5
            │   └── maven-metadata.xml.sha1
            ├── flutter_profile
            │   ├── ...
            └── flutter_debug
                └── ...
```

To depend on the AAR, the host app must be able
to find these files.

To do that, edit `app/build.gradle` in your host app
so that it includes the local repository and the dependency:

<!--code-excerpt "MyApp/app/build.gradle" title-->
```gradle
android {
  // ...
}

repositories {
  maven {
    url 'some/path/my_flutter/build/host/outputs/repo'
    // This is relative to the location of the build.gradle file
    // if using a relative path.
  }
  maven {
    url 'https://storage.googleapis.com/download.flutter.io'
  }
}

dependencies {
  // ...
  debugImplementation 'com.example.flutter_module:flutter_debug:1.0'
  profileImplementation 'com.example.flutter_module:flutter_profile:1.0'
  releaseImplementation 'com.example.flutter_module:flutter_release:1.0'
}
```

{{site.alert.important}}
  If you're located in China, use a mirror site such as
  `https://[a mirror site]/download.flutter.io` rather than the
  `storage.googleapis.com` domain directly. See our
  [Using Flutter in China][] page for information on mirrors.
{{site.alert.end}}

{{site.alert.tip}}
  You can also build an AAR for your Flutter module in Android Studio using
  the `Build > Flutter > Build AAR` menu.

{% include docs/app-figure.md image="development/add-to-app/android/project-setup/ide-build-aar.png" %}
{{site.alert.end}}

  Your app now includes the Flutter module as a dependency.
  You can follow the next steps in the
  [Adding a Flutter screen to an Android app][].

#### Option B - Depend on the module's source code

This option enables a one-step build for both your
Android project and Flutter project. This option is
convenient when you work on both parts simultaneously
and rapidly iterate, but your team must install the
Flutter SDK to build the host app.

{{site.alert.tip}}
  By default, the host app provides the `:app` Gradle project.
  To change the name of this project, set
  `flutter.hostAppProjectName` in the Flutter module's
  `gradle.properties` file. Finally, include this project
  in the host app's `settings.gradle` file mentioned below.
{{site.alert.end}}

Include the Flutter module as a subproject in the host app's
`settings.gradle`:

<!--code-excerpt "MyApp/settings.gradle" title-->
```groovy
// Include the host app project.
include ':app'                                    // assumed existing content
setBinding(new Binding([gradle: this]))                                // new
evaluate(new File(                                                     // new
  settingsDir.parentFile,                                              // new
  'my_flutter/.android/include_flutter.groovy'                         // new
))                                                                     // new
```

Assuming `my_flutter` is a sibling to `MyApp`.

The binding and script evaluation allows the Flutter
module to `include` itself (as `:flutter`) and any
Flutter plugins used by the module (as `:package_info`,
`:video_player`, etc) in the evaluation context of
your `settings.gradle`.

Introduce an `implementation` dependency on the Flutter
module from your app:

<!--code-excerpt "MyApp/app/build.gradle" title-->
```groovy
dependencies {
  implementation project(':flutter')
}
```

Your app now includes the Flutter module as a dependency.
You can follow the next steps in the [Adding a Flutter screen to an Android app][].


[`abiFilters`]: https://developer.android.com/reference/tools/gradle-api/4.2/com/android/build/api/dsl/Ndk#abiFilters:kotlin.collections.MutableSet
[Adding a Flutter screen to an Android app]: /development/add-to-app/android/add-flutter-screen
[Flutter plugin]: https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9212-flutter
[local repository]: https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/declaring_repositories.html#sub:maven_local
[only supports]: /resources/faq#what-devices-and-os-versions-does-flutter-run-on
[Using Flutter in China]: /community/china

Commit message:

update the URLs of the doc site to absolute path

src/development/add-to-app/android/project-setup.md, after:

---
title: Integrate a Flutter module into your Android project
short-title: Integrate Flutter
description: Learn how to integrate a Flutter module into your existing Android project.
---

Flutter can be embedded into your existing Android
application piecemeal, as a source code Gradle
subproject or as AARs.

The integration flow can be done using the Android Studio
IDE with the [Flutter plugin][] or manually.

{{site.alert.warning}}
  Your existing Android app may support architectures such as `mips`
  or `x86`. Flutter currently [only supports][]
  building ahead-of-time (AOT) compiled libraries
  for `x86_64`, `armeabi-v7a` and `arm64-v8a`.

  Consider using the [`abiFilters`][] Android Gradle
  Plugin API to limit the supported architectures in your APK.
  Doing this avoids a missing `libflutter.so` runtime crash,
  for example:

<!--code-excerpt "MyApp/app/build.gradle" title-->
```gradle
android {
  //...
  defaultConfig {
    ndk {
      // Filter for architectures supported by Flutter.
      abiFilters 'armeabi-v7a', 'arm64-v8a', 'x86_64'
    }
  }
}
```

  The Flutter engine has an `x86` and `x86_64` version.
  When using an emulator in debug Just-In-Time (JIT) mode,
  the Flutter module still runs correctly.
{{site.alert.end}}

## Using Android Studio

The Android Studio IDE is a convenient way of integrating
your Flutter module automatically. With Android Studio,
you can co-edit both your Android code and your Flutter code
in the same project. You can also continue to use your normal
IntelliJ Flutter plugin functionalities such as Dart code
completion, hot reload, and widget inspector.

Add-to-app flows with Android Studio are only supported on
Android Studio 3.6 with version 42+ of the [Flutter plugin][]
for IntelliJ. The Android Studio integration also only
supports integrating using a source code Gradle subproject,
rather than using AARs. See below for more details on
the distinction.

Using the **File > New > New Module...** menu in
Android Studio in your existing Android project,
you can either create a new Flutter module to integrate,
or select an existing Flutter module that was created previously.

{% include docs/app-figure.md image="development/add-to-app/android/project-setup/ide-new-module.png" %}

If you create a new module, you can use a wizard to
select the module name, location, and so on.

{% include docs/app-figure.md image="development/add-to-app/android/project-setup/ide-wizard.png" %}

The Android Studio plugin automatically configures your
Android project to add your Flutter module as a dependency,
and your app is ready to build.

{{site.alert.note}}
  To see the changes that were automatically made to your
  Android project by the IDE plugin, consider using
  source control for your Android project before performing
  any steps. A local diff shows the changes.
{{site.alert.end}}

{{site.alert.tip}}
  By default, your project's Project pane is probably
  showing the 'Android' view. If you can't see your new
  Flutter files in the Project pane, ensure that
  your Project pane is set to display 'Project Files',
  which shows all files without filtering.
{{site.alert.end}}

Your app now includes the Flutter module as a dependency.
You can jump to the [Adding a Flutter screen to an Android app][]
to follow the next steps.

## Manual integration

To integrate a Flutter module with an existing Android app
manually, without using Flutter's Android Studio plugin,
follow these steps:

### Create a Flutter module

Let's assume that you have an existing Android app at
`some/path/MyApp`, and that you want your Flutter
project as a sibling:

```terminal
$ cd some/path/
$ flutter create -t module --org com.example my_flutter
```

This creates a `some/path/my_flutter/` Flutter module project
with some Dart code to get you started and an `.android/`
hidden subfolder. The `.android` folder contains an
Android project that can both help you run a barebones
standalone version of your Flutter module via `flutter run`
and it's also a wrapper that helps bootstrap the Flutter
module an embeddable Android library.

{{site.alert.note}}
  Add custom Android code to your own existing
  application's project or a plugin,
  not to the module in `.android/`.
  Changes made in your module's `.android/`
  directory won't appear in your existing Android
  project using the module.

  Do not source control the `.android/` directory
  since it's autogenerated. Before building the
  module on a new machine, run `flutter pub get`
  in the `my_flutter` directory first to regenerate
  the `.android/` directory before building the
  Android project using the Flutter module.
{{site.alert.end}}

{{site.alert.note}}
  To avoid Dex merging issues, `flutter.androidPackage` should not be identical to your host app's package name
{{site.alert.end}}

### Java 8 requirement

The Flutter Android engine uses Java 8 features.

Before attempting to connect your Flutter module project
to your host Android app, ensure that your host Android
app declares the following source compatibility within your
app's `build.gradle` file, under the `android { }`
block, such as:

<!--code-excerpt "MyApp/app/build.gradle" title-->
```gradle
android {
  //...
  compileOptions {
    sourceCompatibility 1.8
    targetCompatibility 1.8
  }
}
```

### Add the Flutter module as a dependency

Next, add the Flutter module as a dependency of your
existing app in Gradle. There are two ways to achieve this.
The AAR mechanism creates generic Android AARs as
intermediaries that packages your Flutter module.
This is good when your downstream app builders don't
want to have the Flutter SDK installed. But,
it adds one more build step if you build frequently.

The source code subproject mechanism is a convenient
one-click build process, but requires the Flutter SDK.
This is the mechanism used by the Android Studio IDE plugin.

#### Option A - Depend on the Android Archive (AAR)

This option packages your Flutter library as a generic local
Maven repository composed of AARs and POMs artifacts.
This option allows your team to build the host app without
installing the Flutter SDK. You can then distribute the
artifacts from a local or remote repository.

Let's assume you built a Flutter module at
`some/path/my_flutter`, and then run:

```terminal
$ cd some/path/my_flutter
$ flutter build aar
```

Then, follow the on-screen instructions to integrate.

{% include docs/app-figure.md image="development/add-to-app/android/project-setup/build-aar-instructions.png" %}

More specifically, this command creates
(by default all debug/profile/release modes)
a [local repository][], with the following files:

```text
build/host/outputs/repo
└── com
    └── example
        └── my_flutter
            ├── flutter_release
            │   ├── 1.0
            │   │   ├── flutter_release-1.0.aar
            │   │   ├── flutter_release-1.0.aar.md5
            │   │   ├── flutter_release-1.0.aar.sha1
            │   │   ├── flutter_release-1.0.pom
            │   │   ├── flutter_release-1.0.pom.md5
            │   │   └── flutter_release-1.0.pom.sha1
            │   ├── maven-metadata.xml
            │   ├── maven-metadata.xml.md5
            │   └── maven-metadata.xml.sha1
            ├── flutter_profile
            │   ├── ...
            └── flutter_debug
                └── ...
```

To depend on the AAR, the host app must be able
to find these files.

To do that, edit `app/build.gradle` in your host app
so that it includes the local repository and the dependency:

<!--code-excerpt "MyApp/app/build.gradle" title-->
```gradle
android {
  // ...
}

repositories {
  maven {
    url 'some/path/my_flutter/build/host/outputs/repo'
    // This is relative to the location of the build.gradle file
    // if using a relative path.
  }
  maven {
    url 'https://storage.googleapis.com/download.flutter.io'
  }
}

dependencies {
  // ...
  debugImplementation 'com.example.flutter_module:flutter_debug:1.0'
  profileImplementation 'com.example.flutter_module:flutter_profile:1.0'
  releaseImplementation 'com.example.flutter_module:flutter_release:1.0'
}
```

{{site.alert.important}}
  If you're located in China, use a mirror site such as
  `https://[a mirror site]/download.flutter.io` rather than the
  `storage.googleapis.com` domain directly. See our
  [Using Flutter in China][] page for information on mirrors.
{{site.alert.end}}

{{site.alert.tip}}
  You can also build an AAR for your Flutter module in Android Studio using
  the `Build > Flutter > Build AAR` menu.

{% include docs/app-figure.md image="development/add-to-app/android/project-setup/ide-build-aar.png" %}
{{site.alert.end}}

  Your app now includes the Flutter module as a dependency.
  You can follow the next steps in the
  [Adding a Flutter screen to an Android app][].

#### Option B - Depend on the module's source code

This option enables a one-step build for both your
Android project and Flutter project. This option is
convenient when you work on both parts simultaneously
and rapidly iterate, but your team must install the
Flutter SDK to build the host app.

{{site.alert.tip}}
  By default, the host app provides the `:app` Gradle project.
  To change the name of this project, set
  `flutter.hostAppProjectName` in the Flutter module's
  `gradle.properties` file. Finally, include this project
  in the host app's `settings.gradle` file mentioned below.
{{site.alert.end}}

Include the Flutter module as a subproject in the host app's
`settings.gradle`:

<!--code-excerpt "MyApp/settings.gradle" title-->
```groovy
// Include the host app project.
include ':app'                                    // assumed existing content
setBinding(new Binding([gradle: this]))                                // new
evaluate(new File(                                                     // new
  settingsDir.parentFile,                                              // new
  'my_flutter/.android/include_flutter.groovy'                         // new
))                                                                     // new
```

Assuming `my_flutter` is a sibling to `MyApp`.

The binding and script evaluation allows the Flutter
module to `include` itself (as `:flutter`) and any
Flutter plugins used by the module (as `:package_info`,
`:video_player`, etc) in the evaluation context of
your `settings.gradle`.

Introduce an `implementation` dependency on the Flutter
module from your app:

<!--code-excerpt "MyApp/app/build.gradle" title-->
```groovy
dependencies {
  implementation project(':flutter')
}
```

Your app now includes the Flutter module as a dependency.
You can follow the next steps in the [Adding a Flutter screen to an Android app][].


[`abiFilters`]: https://developer.android.com/reference/tools/gradle-api/4.2/com/android/build/api/dsl/Ndk#abiFilters:kotlin.collections.MutableSet
[Adding a Flutter screen to an Android app]: {{site.url}}/development/add-to-app/android/add-flutter-screen
[Flutter plugin]: https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9212-flutter
[local repository]: https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/declaring_repositories.html#sub:maven_local
[only supports]: {{site.url}}/resources/faq#what-devices-and-os-versions-does-flutter-run-on
[Using Flutter in China]: {{site.url}}/community/china
