---
title: Key components
description: >
  Familarize yourself with the key components of the
  Flutter for GenUI SDK.
---

```Warning
The `flutter_genui` package is
experimental and is likely to change.
```

Familiarize yourself with the key components of the 
Flutter for GenUI SDK:

* `GenUiConversation`: The main entry point of the package,
   `GenUiConversation` manages the conversation with the LLM,
   handles UI state, and orchestrates the interaction between the app,
   its UI, and the AI.

* `ContentGenerator`: The `ContentGenerator` client manages
  communication with your LLM. The package includes an (optional)
  `FirebaseAiContentGenerator` to communicate with
  Google's Gemini models (using Firebase AI Logic),
  and you can create your own subclasses for other models or LLM libraries.

* `GenUiSurface`: A Flutter widget that displays UI
  generated by the agent. It listens for updates
  from `GenUiConversation` and dynamically renders the generated UI.

* `Catalog`: A catalog of Flutter widgets that the AI is allowed to generate.
  For each widget, you define a name, a schema that describes
  the data needed by the widget, and a builder function.
  The built-in CoreCatalogItems include widgets for rendering text,
  markdown, and images.

* `GenUiManager`: The core state manager for generated UI.
  You won't often interact directly with this class,
  but it's responsible for managing the flow of information
  and events between the agent and your UI.

The next section talks about how to add flutter_genui to your app.

[`flutter_genui`]: https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_genui
