src/docs/development/add-to-app/ios/project-setup.md, before:

---
title: Integrate a Flutter module into your iOS project
short-title: Integrate Flutter
description: Learn how to integrate a Flutter module into your existing iOS project.
---

Flutter can be incrementally added into your existing iOS
application as embedded frameworks.

For examples, see the iOS directories in the [add_to_app code samples][].

## System requirements

Your development environment must meet the
[macOS system requirements for Flutter][]
with [Xcode installed][].
Flutter supports iOS 8.0 and later.
Additionally, you will need [CocoaPods][]
version 1.10 or later.


## Create a Flutter module

To embed Flutter into your existing application,
first create a Flutter module.

From the command line, run:

```sh
cd some/path/
flutter create --template module my_flutter
```

A Flutter module project is created at `some/path/my_flutter/`.
From that directory, you can run the same `flutter`
commands you would in any other Flutter project,
like `flutter run --debug` or `flutter build ios`.
You can also run the module in
[Android Studio/IntelliJ][] or [VS Code][] with
the Flutter and Dart plugins. This project contains a
single-view example version of your module before it's
embedded in your existing application,
which is useful for incrementally
testing the Flutter-only parts of your code.

### Module organization

The `my_flutter` module directory structure is similar to a
normal Flutter application:

```text
my_flutter/
├── .ios/
│   ├── Runner.xcworkspace
│   └── Flutter/podhelper.rb
├── lib/
│   └── main.dart
├── test/
└── pubspec.yaml
```

Add your Dart code to the `lib/` directory.

Add Flutter dependencies to `my_flutter/pubspec.yaml`,
including Flutter packages and plugins.

The `.ios/` hidden subfolder contains an Xcode workspace where
you can run a standalone version of your module.
It is a wrapper project to bootstrap your Flutter code,
and contains helper scripts to facilitate building frameworks or
embedding the module into your existing application with CocoaPods.

{{site.alert.note}}
  Add custom iOS code to your own existing application's
  project or to a plugin, not to the module's `.ios/`
  directory. Changes made in your module's `.ios/`
  directory do not appear in your existing iOS project
  using the module, and may be overwritten by Flutter.

  Do not source control the `.ios/` directory since it's autogenerated.
  Before building the module on a new machine, run `flutter pub get`
  in the `my_flutter` directory first to regenerate the `.ios/`
  directory before building iOS project using the Flutter module.
{{site.alert.end}}

## Embed the Flutter module in your existing application

There are two ways to embed Flutter in your existing application.

1. Use the CocoaPods dependency manager and installed Flutter SDK.
   (Recommended.)
1. Create frameworks for the Flutter engine, your compiled Dart code,
   and all Flutter plugins. Manually embed the frameworks,
   and update your existing application's build settings in Xcode.

{{site.alert.note}}
  Your app does not run on a simulator in Release mode because Flutter does not
  yet support outputting x86/x86_64 ahead-of-time (AOT) binaries for your Dart
  code. You can run in Debug mode on a simulator or a real device,
  and Release on a real device.

  To run your app on a simulator follow the instructions
  in the bottom of section [embed the frameworks][].
{{site.alert.end}}

Using Flutter [increases your app size][].

### Option A - Embed with CocoaPods and the Flutter SDK

This method requires every developer working on your
project to have a locally installed version of the Flutter SDK.
Simply build your application in Xcode to automatically
run the script to embed your Dart and plugin code.
This allows rapid iteration with the most up-to-date
version of your Flutter module without running additional
commands outside of Xcode.

The following example assumes that your existing
application and the Flutter module are in sibling
directories. If you have a different directory structure,
you may need to adjust the relative paths.

```text
some/path/
├── my_flutter/
│   └── .ios/
│       └── Flutter/
│         └── podhelper.rb
└── MyApp/
    └── Podfile
```

If your existing application (`MyApp`) doesn't
already have a Podfile, follow the
[CocoaPods getting started guide][]
to add a `Podfile` to your project.

<ol markdown="1">
<li markdown="1">

Add the following lines to your `Podfile`:

<!--code-excerpt "MyApp/Podfile" title-->
```ruby
flutter_application_path = '../my_flutter'
load File.join(flutter_application_path, '.ios', 'Flutter', 'podhelper.rb')
```

</li>

<li markdown="1">

For each [Podfile target][] that needs to
embed Flutter, call `install_all_flutter_pods(flutter_application_path)`.

<!--code-excerpt "MyApp/Podfile" title-->
```ruby
target 'MyApp' do
  install_all_flutter_pods(flutter_application_path)
end
```

</li>

<li markdown="1">

Run `pod install`.

{{site.alert.note}}
  When you change the Flutter plugin dependencies in
  `my_flutter/pubspec.yaml`, run `flutter pub get`
  in your Flutter module directory to refresh the list
  of plugins read by the `podhelper.rb` script.
  Then, run `pod install` again from
  your application at `some/path/MyApp`.
{{site.alert.end}}

</li>
</ol>

The `podhelper.rb` script embeds your plugins,
`Flutter.framework`, and `App.framework` into your project.

Your app's Debug and Release build configurations embed
the Debug or Release [build modes of Flutter][], respectively.
Add a Profile build configuration
to your app to test in profile mode.

{{site.alert.tip}}
  `Flutter.framework` is the bundle for the Flutter engine,
  and `App.framework` is the compiled Dart code for this project.
{{site.alert.end}}

Open `MyApp.xcworkspace` in Xcode.
You can now build the project using `⌘B`.

### Option B - Embed frameworks in Xcode

Alternatively, you can generate the necessary frameworks
and embed them in your application by manually editing
your existing Xcode project. You may do this if members of your
team can't locally install Flutter SDK and CocoaPods,
or if you don't want to use CocoaPods
as a dependency manager in your existing applications.
You must run `flutter build ios-framework`
every time you make code changes in your Flutter module.

If you're using the previous
[Embed with CocoaPods and Flutter tools][] method,
you can skip these instructions.

The following example assumes that you want to generate the
frameworks to `some/path/MyApp/Flutter/`.

```sh
flutter build ios-framework --xcframework --no-universal --output=some/path/MyApp/Flutter/
```

```text
some/path/MyApp/
└── Flutter/
    ├── Debug/
    │   ├── Flutter.xcframework
    │   ├── App.xcframework
    │   ├── FlutterPluginRegistrant.xcframework (only if you have plugins with iOS platform code)
    │   └── example_plugin.xcframework (each plugin is a separate framework)
    ├── Profile/
    │   ├── Flutter.xcframework
    │   ├── App.xcframework
    │   ├── FlutterPluginRegistrant.xcframework
    │   └── example_plugin.xcframework
    └── Release/
        ├── Flutter.xcframework
        ├── App.xcframework
        ├── FlutterPluginRegistrant.xcframework
        └── example_plugin.xcframework
```

{{site.alert.warning}}
  Always use `Flutter.xcframework` and `App.xcframework`
  from the same directory. Mixing `.xcframework` imports
  from different directories (such as `Profile/Flutter.xcframework`
  with `Debug/App.xcframework`) causes runtime crashes.
{{site.alert.end}}

Embed and link the generated frameworks into your existing
application in Xcode.  There are multiple ways to do
this&mdash;use the method that is best for your project.

#### Link on the frameworks

For example, you can drag the frameworks from
`some/path/MyApp/Flutter/Release/` in Finder
into your target's **Build
Settings > Build Phases > Link Binary With Libraries**.

In the target's build settings, add `$(PROJECT_DIR)/Flutter/Release/`
to the **Framework Search Paths** (`FRAMEWORK_SEARCH_PATHS`).

{% include app-figure.md image="development/add-to-app/ios/project-setup/framework-search-paths.png" alt="Update Framework Search Paths in Xcode" %}

#### Embed the frameworks

The generated dynamic frameworks must be embedded
into your app to be loaded at runtime.

{{site.alert.important}}
  Plugins might produce [static or dynamic frameworks][].
  Static frameworks should be linked on, but never embedded.
  If you embed a static framework into your application,
  your application is not publishable to the App Store
  and fails with a
  **Found an unexpected Mach-O header code** archive error.
{{site.alert.end}}

For example, you can drag the framework
(except for `FlutterPluginRegistrant` and any other
static frameworks) from your application's Frameworks group
into your target's **Build Settings > Build Phases >
Embed Frameworks**.
Then, select **Embed & Sign** from the drop-down list.

{% include app-figure.md image="development/add-to-app/ios/project-setup/embed-xcode.png" alt="Embed frameworks in Xcode" %}

You should now be able to build the project in Xcode using `⌘B`.

{{site.alert.tip}}
  To embed the Debug version of the Flutter frameworks in your
  Debug build configuration and the Release version in your
  Release configuration, in your `MyApp.xcodeproj/project.pbxproj`,
  try replacing `path = Flutter/Release/example.xcframework;`
  with `path = "Flutter/$(CONFIGURATION)/example.xcframework";`
  for all added frameworks. (Note the added `"`.)

  You must also add `$(PROJECT_DIR)/Flutter/$(CONFIGURATION)`
  to the **Framework Search Paths** (`FRAMEWORK_SEARCH_PATHS`)
  build setting.
{{site.alert.end}}

### Option C - Embed application and plugin frameworks in Xcode and Flutter framework with CocoaPods

Alternatively, instead of distributing the large Flutter.xcframework
to other developers, machines, or continuous integration systems,
you can instead generate Flutter as CocoaPods podspec by adding
the flag `--cocoapods`. This produces a `Flutter.podspec`
instead of an engine Flutter.xcframework.
The App.xcframework and plugin frameworks are generated
as described in Option B.

```sh
flutter build ios-framework --cocoapods --xcframework --no-universal --output=some/path/MyApp/Flutter/
```

```text
some/path/MyApp/
└── Flutter/
    ├── Debug/
    │   ├── Flutter.podspec
    │   ├── App.xcframework
    │   ├── FlutterPluginRegistrant.xcframework
    │   └── example_plugin.xcframework (each plugin with iOS platform code is a separate framework)
    ├── Profile/
    │   ├── Flutter.podspec
    │   ├── App.xcframework
    │   ├── FlutterPluginRegistrant.xcframework
    │   └── example_plugin.xcframework
    └── Release/
        ├── Flutter.podspec
        ├── App.xcframework
        ├── FlutterPluginRegistrant.xcframework
        └── example_plugin.xcframework
```

Host apps using CocoaPods can add Flutter to their Podfile:

<!--code-excerpt "MyApp/Podfile" title-->
```ruby
pod 'Flutter', :podspec => 'some/path/MyApp/Flutter/[build mode]/Flutter.podspec'
```

Embed and link the generated App.xcframework,
FlutterPluginRegistrant.xcframework,
and any plugin frameworks into your existing application
as described in Option B.

## Local Network Privacy Permissions
On iOS 14 and higher, enable the Dart multicast DNS
service in the Debug version of your app
to add [debugging functionalities such as hot-reload and
DevTools][] via `flutter attach`.

{{site.alert.warning}}
  This service must not be enabled in the **Release**
  version of your app, or you may experience App Store rejections.
{{site.alert.end}}

One way to do this is to maintain a separate copy of your app's Info.plist per
build configuration. The following instructions assume
the default **Debug** and **Release**.
Adjust the names as needed depending on your app's build configurations.

<ol markdown="1">
<li markdown="1">

Rename your app's **Info.plist** to **Info-Debug.plist**.
Make a copy of it called **Info-Release.plist** and add it to your Xcode project.

{% include app-figure.md image="development/add-to-app/ios/project-setup/info-plists.png" alt="Info-Debug.plist and Info-Release.plist in Xcode" %}

</li>

<li markdown="1">
In **Info-Debug.plist** _only_ add the key `NSBonjourServices`
and set the value to an array with the string `_dartobservatory._tcp`.
Note Xcode will display this as "Bonjour services".

Optionally, add the key `NSLocalNetworkUsageDescription` set to your
desired customized permission dialog text.

{% include app-figure.md image="development/add-to-app/ios/project-setup/debug-plist.png" alt="Info-Debug.plist with additional keys" %}

</li>

<li markdown="1">

In your target's build settings, change the **Info.plist File**
(`INFOPLIST_FILE`) setting path from `path/to/Info.plist` to `path/to/Info-$(CONFIGURATION).plist`.

{% include app-figure.md image="development/add-to-app/ios/project-setup/set-plist-build-setting.png" alt="Set INFOPLIST_FILE build setting" %}

This will resolve to the path **Info-Debug.plist** in **Debug** and
**Info-Release.plist** in **Release**.

{% include app-figure.md image="development/add-to-app/ios/project-setup/plist-build-setting.png" alt="Resolved INFOPLIST_FILE build setting" %}

Alternatively, you can explicitly set the **Debug** path to **Info-Debug.plist**
and the **Release** path to **Info-Release.plist**.

</li>

<li markdown="1">

If the **Info-Release.plist** copy is in your target's **Build Settings > Build Phases > Copy Bundle**
Resources build phase, remove it.

{% include app-figure.md image="development/add-to-app/ios/project-setup/copy-bundle.png" alt="Copy Bundle build phase" %}

The first Flutter screen loaded by your Debug app will now prompt
for local network permission. The permission can also be allowed by enabling
**Settings > Privacy > Local Network > Your App**.
{% include app-figure.md image="development/add-to-app/ios/project-setup/network-permission.png" alt="Local network permission dialog" %}

</li>
</ol>

## Development

You can now [add a Flutter screen][] to your existing application.

[add_to_app code samples]: {{site.github}}/flutter/samples/tree/master/add_to_app
[add a Flutter screen]: /docs/development/add-to-app/ios/add-flutter-screen
[Android Studio/IntelliJ]: /docs/development/tools/android-studio
[build modes of Flutter]: /docs/testing/build-modes
[embed the frameworks]: /docs/development/add-to-app/ios/project-setup#embed-the-frameworks
[CocoaPods]: https://cocoapods.org/
[CocoaPods getting started guide]: https://guides.cocoapods.org/using/using-cocoapods.html
[debugging functionalities such as hot-reload and DevTools]: /docs/development/add-to-app/debugging
[Embed with CocoaPods and Flutter tools]: #option-a---embed-with-cocoapods-and-the-flutter-sdk
[increases your app size]: /docs/resources/faq#how-big-is-the-flutter-engine
[macOS system requirements for Flutter]: /docs/get-started/install/macos#system-requirements
[On iOS 14 and higher]: https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=0oi77447
[Podfile target]: https://guides.cocoapods.org/syntax/podfile.html#target
[static or dynamic frameworks]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/32591878/ios-is-it-a-static-or-a-dynamic-framework
[VS Code]: /docs/development/tools/vs-code
[XCFrameworks]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcode_release_notes/xcode_11_release_notes
[Xcode installed]: /docs/get-started/install/macos#install-xcode

Commit message:

Add Apple Silicon add-to-app iOS project setup instructions (#5174)

src/docs/development/add-to-app/ios/project-setup.md, after:

---
title: Integrate a Flutter module into your iOS project
short-title: Integrate Flutter
description: Learn how to integrate a Flutter module into your existing iOS project.
---

Flutter can be incrementally added into your existing iOS
application as embedded frameworks.

For examples, see the iOS directories in the [add_to_app code samples][].

## System requirements

Your development environment must meet the
[macOS system requirements for Flutter][]
with [Xcode installed][].
Flutter supports iOS 8.0 and later.
Additionally, you will need [CocoaPods][]
version 1.10 or later.


## Create a Flutter module

To embed Flutter into your existing application,
first create a Flutter module.

From the command line, run:

```sh
cd some/path/
flutter create --template module my_flutter
```

A Flutter module project is created at `some/path/my_flutter/`.
From that directory, you can run the same `flutter`
commands you would in any other Flutter project,
like `flutter run --debug` or `flutter build ios`.
You can also run the module in
[Android Studio/IntelliJ][] or [VS Code][] with
the Flutter and Dart plugins. This project contains a
single-view example version of your module before it's
embedded in your existing application,
which is useful for incrementally
testing the Flutter-only parts of your code.

### Module organization

The `my_flutter` module directory structure is similar to a
normal Flutter application:

```text
my_flutter/
├── .ios/
│   ├── Runner.xcworkspace
│   └── Flutter/podhelper.rb
├── lib/
│   └── main.dart
├── test/
└── pubspec.yaml
```

Add your Dart code to the `lib/` directory.

Add Flutter dependencies to `my_flutter/pubspec.yaml`,
including Flutter packages and plugins.

The `.ios/` hidden subfolder contains an Xcode workspace where
you can run a standalone version of your module.
It is a wrapper project to bootstrap your Flutter code,
and contains helper scripts to facilitate building frameworks or
embedding the module into your existing application with CocoaPods.

{{site.alert.note}}
  Add custom iOS code to your own existing application's
  project or to a plugin, not to the module's `.ios/`
  directory. Changes made in your module's `.ios/`
  directory do not appear in your existing iOS project
  using the module, and may be overwritten by Flutter.

  Do not source control the `.ios/` directory since it's autogenerated.
  Before building the module on a new machine, run `flutter pub get`
  in the `my_flutter` directory first to regenerate the `.ios/`
  directory before building iOS project using the Flutter module.
{{site.alert.end}}

## Embed the Flutter module in your existing application

There are two ways to embed Flutter in your existing application.

1. Use the CocoaPods dependency manager and installed Flutter SDK.
   (Recommended.)
1. Create frameworks for the Flutter engine, your compiled Dart code,
   and all Flutter plugins. Manually embed the frameworks,
   and update your existing application's build settings in Xcode.

{{site.alert.note}}
  Your app does not run on a simulator in Release mode because Flutter does not
  yet support outputting x86/x86_64 ahead-of-time (AOT) binaries for your Dart
  code. You can run in Debug mode on a simulator or a real device,
  and Release on a real device.

  To run your app on a simulator follow the instructions
  in the bottom of section [embed the frameworks][].
{{site.alert.end}}

Using Flutter [increases your app size][].

### Option A - Embed with CocoaPods and the Flutter SDK

This method requires every developer working on your
project to have a locally installed version of the Flutter SDK.
Simply build your application in Xcode to automatically
run the script to embed your Dart and plugin code.
This allows rapid iteration with the most up-to-date
version of your Flutter module without running additional
commands outside of Xcode.

The following example assumes that your existing
application and the Flutter module are in sibling
directories. If you have a different directory structure,
you may need to adjust the relative paths.

```text
some/path/
├── my_flutter/
│   └── .ios/
│       └── Flutter/
│         └── podhelper.rb
└── MyApp/
    └── Podfile
```

If your existing application (`MyApp`) doesn't
already have a Podfile, follow the
[CocoaPods getting started guide][]
to add a `Podfile` to your project.

<ol markdown="1">
<li markdown="1">

Add the following lines to your `Podfile`:

<!--code-excerpt "MyApp/Podfile" title-->
```ruby
flutter_application_path = '../my_flutter'
load File.join(flutter_application_path, '.ios', 'Flutter', 'podhelper.rb')
```

</li>

<li markdown="1">

For each [Podfile target][] that needs to
embed Flutter, call `install_all_flutter_pods(flutter_application_path)`.

<!--code-excerpt "MyApp/Podfile" title-->
```ruby
target 'MyApp' do
  install_all_flutter_pods(flutter_application_path)
end
```

</li>

<li markdown="1">

Run `pod install`.

{{site.alert.note}}
  When you change the Flutter plugin dependencies in
  `my_flutter/pubspec.yaml`, run `flutter pub get`
  in your Flutter module directory to refresh the list
  of plugins read by the `podhelper.rb` script.
  Then, run `pod install` again from
  your application at `some/path/MyApp`.
{{site.alert.end}}

</li>
</ol>

The `podhelper.rb` script embeds your plugins,
`Flutter.framework`, and `App.framework` into your project.

Your app's Debug and Release build configurations embed
the Debug or Release [build modes of Flutter][], respectively.
Add a Profile build configuration
to your app to test in profile mode.

{{site.alert.tip}}
  `Flutter.framework` is the bundle for the Flutter engine,
  and `App.framework` is the compiled Dart code for this project.
{{site.alert.end}}

Open `MyApp.xcworkspace` in Xcode.
You can now build the project using `⌘B`.

### Option B - Embed frameworks in Xcode

Alternatively, you can generate the necessary frameworks
and embed them in your application by manually editing
your existing Xcode project. You may do this if members of your
team can't locally install Flutter SDK and CocoaPods,
or if you don't want to use CocoaPods
as a dependency manager in your existing applications.
You must run `flutter build ios-framework`
every time you make code changes in your Flutter module.

If you're using the previous
[Embed with CocoaPods and Flutter tools][] method,
you can skip these instructions.

The following example assumes that you want to generate the
frameworks to `some/path/MyApp/Flutter/`.

```sh
flutter build ios-framework --xcframework --no-universal --output=some/path/MyApp/Flutter/
```

```text
some/path/MyApp/
└── Flutter/
    ├── Debug/
    │   ├── Flutter.xcframework
    │   ├── App.xcframework
    │   ├── FlutterPluginRegistrant.xcframework (only if you have plugins with iOS platform code)
    │   └── example_plugin.xcframework (each plugin is a separate framework)
    ├── Profile/
    │   ├── Flutter.xcframework
    │   ├── App.xcframework
    │   ├── FlutterPluginRegistrant.xcframework
    │   └── example_plugin.xcframework
    └── Release/
        ├── Flutter.xcframework
        ├── App.xcframework
        ├── FlutterPluginRegistrant.xcframework
        └── example_plugin.xcframework
```

{{site.alert.warning}}
  Always use `Flutter.xcframework` and `App.xcframework`
  from the same directory. Mixing `.xcframework` imports
  from different directories (such as `Profile/Flutter.xcframework`
  with `Debug/App.xcframework`) causes runtime crashes.
{{site.alert.end}}

Embed and link the generated frameworks into your existing
application in Xcode.  There are multiple ways to do
this&mdash;use the method that is best for your project.

#### Link on the frameworks

For example, you can drag the frameworks from
`some/path/MyApp/Flutter/Release/` in Finder
into your target's **Build
Settings > Build Phases > Link Binary With Libraries**.

In the target's build settings, add `$(PROJECT_DIR)/Flutter/Release/`
to the **Framework Search Paths** (`FRAMEWORK_SEARCH_PATHS`).

{% include app-figure.md image="development/add-to-app/ios/project-setup/framework-search-paths.png" alt="Update Framework Search Paths in Xcode" %}

#### Embed the frameworks

The generated dynamic frameworks must be embedded
into your app to be loaded at runtime.

{{site.alert.important}}
  Plugins might produce [static or dynamic frameworks][].
  Static frameworks should be linked on, but never embedded.
  If you embed a static framework into your application,
  your application is not publishable to the App Store
  and fails with a
  **Found an unexpected Mach-O header code** archive error.
{{site.alert.end}}

For example, you can drag the framework
(except for `FlutterPluginRegistrant` and any other
static frameworks) from your application's Frameworks group
into your target's **Build Settings > Build Phases >
Embed Frameworks**.
Then, select **Embed & Sign** from the drop-down list.

{% include app-figure.md image="development/add-to-app/ios/project-setup/embed-xcode.png" alt="Embed frameworks in Xcode" %}

You should now be able to build the project in Xcode using `⌘B`.

{{site.alert.tip}}
  To embed the Debug version of the Flutter frameworks in your
  Debug build configuration and the Release version in your
  Release configuration, in your `MyApp.xcodeproj/project.pbxproj`,
  try replacing `path = Flutter/Release/example.xcframework;`
  with `path = "Flutter/$(CONFIGURATION)/example.xcframework";`
  for all added frameworks. (Note the added `"`.)

  You must also add `$(PROJECT_DIR)/Flutter/$(CONFIGURATION)`
  to the **Framework Search Paths** (`FRAMEWORK_SEARCH_PATHS`)
  build setting.
{{site.alert.end}}

### Option C - Embed application and plugin frameworks in Xcode and Flutter framework with CocoaPods

Alternatively, instead of distributing the large Flutter.xcframework
to other developers, machines, or continuous integration systems,
you can instead generate Flutter as CocoaPods podspec by adding
the flag `--cocoapods`. This produces a `Flutter.podspec`
instead of an engine Flutter.xcframework.
The App.xcframework and plugin frameworks are generated
as described in Option B.

```sh
flutter build ios-framework --cocoapods --xcframework --no-universal --output=some/path/MyApp/Flutter/
```

```text
some/path/MyApp/
└── Flutter/
    ├── Debug/
    │   ├── Flutter.podspec
    │   ├── App.xcframework
    │   ├── FlutterPluginRegistrant.xcframework
    │   └── example_plugin.xcframework (each plugin with iOS platform code is a separate framework)
    ├── Profile/
    │   ├── Flutter.podspec
    │   ├── App.xcframework
    │   ├── FlutterPluginRegistrant.xcframework
    │   └── example_plugin.xcframework
    └── Release/
        ├── Flutter.podspec
        ├── App.xcframework
        ├── FlutterPluginRegistrant.xcframework
        └── example_plugin.xcframework
```

Host apps using CocoaPods can add Flutter to their Podfile:

<!--code-excerpt "MyApp/Podfile" title-->
```ruby
pod 'Flutter', :podspec => 'some/path/MyApp/Flutter/[build mode]/Flutter.podspec'
```

Embed and link the generated App.xcframework,
FlutterPluginRegistrant.xcframework,
and any plugin frameworks into your existing application
as described in Option B.

## Local Network Privacy Permissions
On iOS 14 and higher, enable the Dart multicast DNS
service in the Debug version of your app
to add [debugging functionalities such as hot-reload and
DevTools][] via `flutter attach`.

{{site.alert.warning}}
  This service must not be enabled in the **Release**
  version of your app, or you may experience App Store rejections.
{{site.alert.end}}

One way to do this is to maintain a separate copy of your app's Info.plist per
build configuration. The following instructions assume
the default **Debug** and **Release**.
Adjust the names as needed depending on your app's build configurations.

<ol markdown="1">
<li markdown="1">

Rename your app's **Info.plist** to **Info-Debug.plist**.
Make a copy of it called **Info-Release.plist** and add it to your Xcode project.

{% include app-figure.md image="development/add-to-app/ios/project-setup/info-plists.png" alt="Info-Debug.plist and Info-Release.plist in Xcode" %}

</li>

<li markdown="1">
In **Info-Debug.plist** _only_ add the key `NSBonjourServices`
and set the value to an array with the string `_dartobservatory._tcp`.
Note Xcode will display this as "Bonjour services".

Optionally, add the key `NSLocalNetworkUsageDescription` set to your
desired customized permission dialog text.

{% include app-figure.md image="development/add-to-app/ios/project-setup/debug-plist.png" alt="Info-Debug.plist with additional keys" %}

</li>

<li markdown="1">

In your target's build settings, change the **Info.plist File**
(`INFOPLIST_FILE`) setting path from `path/to/Info.plist` to `path/to/Info-$(CONFIGURATION).plist`.

{% include app-figure.md image="development/add-to-app/ios/project-setup/set-plist-build-setting.png" alt="Set INFOPLIST_FILE build setting" %}

This will resolve to the path **Info-Debug.plist** in **Debug** and
**Info-Release.plist** in **Release**.

{% include app-figure.md image="development/add-to-app/ios/project-setup/plist-build-setting.png" alt="Resolved INFOPLIST_FILE build setting" %}

Alternatively, you can explicitly set the **Debug** path to **Info-Debug.plist**
and the **Release** path to **Info-Release.plist**.

</li>

<li markdown="1">

If the **Info-Release.plist** copy is in your target's **Build Settings > Build Phases > Copy Bundle**
Resources build phase, remove it.

{% include app-figure.md image="development/add-to-app/ios/project-setup/copy-bundle.png" alt="Copy Bundle build phase" %}

The first Flutter screen loaded by your Debug app will now prompt
for local network permission. The permission can also be allowed by enabling
**Settings > Privacy > Local Network > Your App**.
{% include app-figure.md image="development/add-to-app/ios/project-setup/network-permission.png" alt="Local network permission dialog" %}

</li>
</ol>

## Apple Silicon (`arm64` Macs)

Flutter does not yet support `arm64` iOS simulators. To run your host app on an Apple Silicon
Mac, exclude `arm64` from the simulator architectures.

In your host app target, find the **Excluded Architectures** (`EXCLUDED_ARCHS`) build setting.
Click the right arrow disclosure indicator icon to expand the available build configurations.
Hover over **Debug** and click the plus icon. Change **Any SDK** to **Any iOS Simulator SDK**.
Add `arm64` to the build settings value.

{% include app-figure.md image="development/add-to-app/ios/project-setup/excluded-archs.png" alt="Set conditional EXCLUDED_ARCHS build setting" %}

When done correctly, Xcode will add `"EXCLUDED_ARCHS[sdk=iphonesimulator*]" = arm64;` to your **project.pbxproj** file.

Repeat for any iOS unit test targets.

## Development

You can now [add a Flutter screen][] to your existing application.

[add_to_app code samples]: {{site.github}}/flutter/samples/tree/master/add_to_app
[add a Flutter screen]: /docs/development/add-to-app/ios/add-flutter-screen
[Android Studio/IntelliJ]: /docs/development/tools/android-studio
[build modes of Flutter]: /docs/testing/build-modes
[embed the frameworks]: /docs/development/add-to-app/ios/project-setup#embed-the-frameworks
[CocoaPods]: https://cocoapods.org/
[CocoaPods getting started guide]: https://guides.cocoapods.org/using/using-cocoapods.html
[debugging functionalities such as hot-reload and DevTools]: /docs/development/add-to-app/debugging
[Embed with CocoaPods and Flutter tools]: #option-a---embed-with-cocoapods-and-the-flutter-sdk
[increases your app size]: /docs/resources/faq#how-big-is-the-flutter-engine
[macOS system requirements for Flutter]: /docs/get-started/install/macos#system-requirements
[On iOS 14 and higher]: https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=0oi77447
[Podfile target]: https://guides.cocoapods.org/syntax/podfile.html#target
[static or dynamic frameworks]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/32591878/ios-is-it-a-static-or-a-dynamic-framework
[VS Code]: /docs/development/tools/vs-code
[XCFrameworks]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcode_release_notes/xcode_11_release_notes
[Xcode installed]: /docs/get-started/install/macos#install-xcode
