---
title: Integrate a Flutter module into your iOS project (Legacy)
shortTitle: Integrate Flutter (Legacy)
description: Learn how to integrate a Flutter module into your existing iOS project.
---

:::warning

As of Flutter 3.44, Swift Package Manager (SwiftPM) replaces CocoaPods
as the default dependency manager for iOS and macOS Flutter apps.
CocoaPods is officially in maintenance mode,
and its registry will permanently [become read-only on December 2, 2026][].

This guide is preserved for reference only, and will not receive ongoing maintenance.
Please migrate to using Swift Package Manager using the [updated integration guide][].

:::

Flutter UI components can be incrementally added into your existing iOS
application as embedded frameworks.
To embed Flutter in your existing application,
consider one of the following three methods.

| Embedding Method | Methodology | Benefit |
|---|---|---|
| Use CocoaPods _(Recommended)_ | Install and use the Flutter SDK and CocoaPods. Flutter compiles the `flutter_module` from source each time Xcode builds the iOS app. | Least complicated method to embed Flutter into your app. |
| Use [iOS frameworks][] | Create iOS frameworks for Flutter components, embed them into your iOS, and update your existing app's build settings. | Doesn't require every developer to install the Flutter SDK and CocoaPods on their local machines. |
| Use iOS frameworks and CocoaPods | Embed the frameworks for your iOS app and the plugins in Xcode, but distribute the Flutter engine as a CocoaPods podspec. | Provides an alternative to distributing the large Flutter engine (`Flutter.xcframework`) library. |

{:.table .table-striped}

[iOS frameworks]: {{site.apple-dev}}/library/archive/documentation/MacOSX/Conceptual/BPFrameworks/Concepts/WhatAreFrameworks.html

When you add Flutter to your existing iOS app,
it [increases the size of your iOS app][app-size].

For examples using an app built with UIKit,
see the iOS directories in the [add_to_app code samples][].
For an example using SwiftUI, consult the iOS directory in [News Feed App][].

## Development system requirements

Flutter requires the latest version of Xcode and [CocoaPods][].

## Create a Flutter module

To embed Flutter into your existing application with any method,
create a Flutter module first.
Use the following command to create a Flutter module.

```console
$ cd /path/to/my_flutter
$ flutter create --template module my_flutter
```

Flutter creates module project under `/path/to/my_flutter/`.
If you use the [CocoaPods method][], save the module
in the same parent directory as your existing iOS app.

[CocoaPods method]: /add-to-app/ios/project-setup-legacy/?tab=embed-using-cocoapods

From the Flutter module directory,
you can run the same `flutter` commands you would in any other Flutter project,
like `flutter run` or `flutter build ios`.
You can also run the module in [VS Code][] or
[Android Studio/IntelliJ][] with the Flutter and Dart plugins.
This project contains a single-view example version of your module
before embedding it in your existing iOS app.
This helps when testing the Flutter-only parts of your code.

## Organize your module

The `my_flutter` module directory structure resembles a typical Flutter app.

<FileTree>

- my_flutter/
  - .ios/
    - Runner.xcworkspace
    - Flutter/
      - podhelper.rb
  - lib/
    - main.dart
  - test/
  - pubspec.yaml

</FileTree>

Your Dart code should be added to the `lib/` directory.
Your Flutter dependencies, packages, and plugins must be added to the
`pubspec.yaml` file.

The `.ios/` hidden subfolder contains an Xcode workspace where
you can run a standalone version of your module.
This wrapper project bootstraps your Flutter code.
It contains helper scripts to facilitate building frameworks or
embedding the module into your existing application with CocoaPods.

:::note

* Add custom iOS code to your own existing application's
  project or to a plugin, not to the module's `.ios/`
  directory. Changes made in your module's `.ios/`
  directory don't appear in your existing iOS project
  using the module, and might be overwritten by Flutter.

* Exclude the `.ios/` directory from source control as
  it's autogenerated.

* Before building the module on a new machine,
  run `flutter pub get` in the `my_flutter` directory.
  This regenerates the `.ios/` directory before building
  the iOS project that uses the Flutter module.

:::

## Embed a Flutter module in your iOS app

After you have developed your Flutter module,
you can embed it using the methods described
in the table at the top of the page.

You can run in **Debug** mode on a simulator or a real device,
and **Release** mode on a real device.

:::note
Learn more about [Flutter's build modes][build modes of Flutter].

To use Flutter debugging features such as hot reload,
consult [Debugging your add-to-app module][].
:::

<Tabs key="darwin-deps">
<Tab name="Use CocoaPods">

{% render "docs/add-to-app/ios-project/embed-cocoapods.md" %}

</Tab>
<Tab name="Use frameworks">

{% render "docs/add-to-app/ios-project/embed-frameworks.md" %}

</Tab>
<Tab name="Use frameworks and CocoaPods">

{% render "docs/add-to-app/ios-project/embed-split.md" %}

</Tab>
</Tabs>


## Set local network privacy permissions

{% render "docs/add-to-app/ios-project/local-network-privacy-permissions.md" %}

## Mitigate known issue with Apple Silicon Macs

On [Macs running Apple Silicon][apple-silicon],
the host app builds for an `arm64` simulator.
While Flutter supports `arm64` simulators, some plugins might not.
If you use one of these plugins, you might see a compilation error like
**Undefined symbols for architecture arm64**.
If this occurs,
exclude `arm64` from the simulator architectures in your host app.

1. In the **Project Navigator**, click on your project.

1. Click the **Build Settings** tab.

1. Click **All** and **Combined** sub-tabs.

1. Under **Architectures**, click on **Excluded Architectures**.

1. Expand to see the available build configurations.

1. Click **Debug**.

1. Click the **+** (plus sign).

1. Select **iOS Simulator**.

1. Double-click in the value column for **Any iOS Simulator SDK**.

1. Click the **+** (plus sign).

1. Type `arm64` in the **Debug > Any iOS Simulator SDK** dialog box.

   <DashImage image="development/add-to-app/ios/project-setup/excluded-archs.png" caption="Add `arm64` as an excluded architecture for your app" />

1. Press <kbd>Esc</kbd> to close this dialog box.

1. Repeat these steps for the **Release** build mode.

1. Repeat for any iOS unit test targets.

## Next steps

You can now [add a Flutter screen][] to your existing iOS app.

[add_to_app code samples]: {{site.repo.samples}}/tree/main/add_to_app
[add a Flutter screen]: /add-to-app/ios/add-flutter-screen
[Android Studio/IntelliJ]: /tools/android-studio
[build modes of Flutter]: /testing/build-modes
[CocoaPods]: https://cocoapods.org/
[app-size]: /resources/faq#how-big-is-the-flutter-engine
[VS Code]: /tools/vs-code
[News Feed app]: https://github.com/flutter/put-flutter-to-work/tree/022208184ec2623af2d113d13d90e8e1ce722365
[Debugging your add-to-app module]: /add-to-app/debugging/
[apple-silicon]: https://support.apple.com/en-us/116943
[become read-only on December 2, 2026]: https://blog.cocoapods.org/CocoaPods-Specs-Repo/
[updated integration guide]: /add-to-app/ios/project-setup