src/perf/rendering/best-practices.md, before:

---
title: Performance best practices
short-title: Best practices
description: How to ensure that your Flutter app is performant.
---

{% include docs/performance.md %}

Generally, Flutter applications are performant by default,
so you only need to avoid common pitfalls to get excellent
performance. These best recommendations will help you
write the most performant Flutter app possible.

If you are writing web apps in Flutter, you might be interested
in a series of articles, written by the Flutter Material team,
after they modified the [Flutter Gallery][] app to make it more
performant on the web:

* [Optimizing performance in Flutter web apps with tree
   shaking and deferred loading][web-perf-1]
* [Improving perceived performance with image placeholders,
   precaching, and disabled navigation transitions][web-perf-2]
* [Building performant Flutter widgets][web-perf-3]


[Flutter Gallery]: {{site.gallery}}
[web-perf-1]: {{site.flutter-medium}}/optimizing-performance-in-flutter-web-apps-with-tree-shaking-and-deferred-loading-535fbe3cd674
[web-perf-2]: {{site.flutter-medium}}/improving-perceived-performance-with-image-placeholders-precaching-and-disabled-navigation-6b3601087a2b
[web-perf-3]: {{site.flutter-medium}}/building-performant-flutter-widgets-3b2558aa08fa

## Best practices

How do you design a Flutter app to most efficiently
render your scenes? In particular, how do you ensure
that the painting code generated by the
framework is as efficient as possible?
Here are a few things to consider
when designing your app:

### Controlling build() cost

* Avoid repetitive and costly work in `build()` methods
  since `build()` can be invoked frequently when
  ancestor Widgets rebuild.
* Avoid overly large single Widgets with a large `build()` function.
  Split them into different Widgets based on encapsulation
  but also on how they change:
  * When `setState()` is called on a State, all descendent widgets
    rebuild. Therefore, localize the `setState()` call to the part of
    the subtree whose UI actually needs to change. Avoid calling
    setState() high up in the tree if the change is contained
    to a small part of the tree.
  * The traversal to rebuild all descendents stops when the
    same instance of the child widget as the previous
    frame is re-encountered. This technique is heavily
    used inside the framework for optimizing
    animations where the animation doesn't affect the child subtree.
    See the [`TransitionBuilder`][] pattern and
    the [source code for `SlideTransition`][],
    which uses this principle to avoid rebuilding its
    descendents when animating.

Also see:

* [Performance considerations][], part of the [`StatefulWidget`][] API doc

[Performance considerations]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/StatefulWidget-class.html#performance-considerations
[source code for `SlideTransition`]: {{site.repo.flutter}}/blob/master/packages/flutter/lib/src/widgets/transitions.dart
[`StatefulWidget`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/StatefulWidget-class.html
[`TransitionBuilder`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/TransitionBuilder.html

### Apply effects only when needed

Use effects carefully, as they can be expensive.
Some of them invoke `saveLayer()` behind the scenes,
which can be an expensive operation.

{{site.alert.secondary}}
  <h4>Why is savelayer expensive?</h4><a name="why-is-savelayer-expensive"></a>
  Calling `saveLayer()` allocates an offscreen buffer.
  Drawing content into the offscreen buffer might trigger
  render target switches that are particularly slow in
  older GPUs.
{{site.alert.end}}

Some general rules when applying specific effects:

* Use the [`Opacity`][] widget only when necessary.
  See the [Transparent image][] section in the Opacity
  API page for an example of applying opacity directly
  to an image, which is faster than using the Opacity
  widget.
* **Clipping** doesn’t call `saveLayer()` (unless
  explicitly requested with `Clip.antiAliasWithSaveLayer`)
  so these operations aren’t as expensive as Opacity,
  but clipping is still costly, so use with caution.
  By default, clipping is disabled (`Clip.none`),
  so you must explicitly enable it when needed.

Other widgets that might trigger `saveLayer()`
and are potentially costly:

* [`ShaderMask`][]
* [`ColorFilter`][]
* [`Chip`][]&mdash;might cause call to `saveLayer()` if
  `disabledColorAlpha != 0xff`
* [`Text`][]&mdash;might cause call to `saveLayer()`
  if there's an `overflowShader`

Ways to avoid calls to `saveLayer()`:

* To implement fading in an image, consider using the
  [`FadeInImage`][] widget,
  which applies a gradual opacity using the GPU’s fragment shader.
  For more information, see the [`Opacity`][] docs.
* To create a rectangle with rounded corners, instead of applying a
  clipping rectangle, consider using the `borderRadius` property offered
  by many of the widget classes.

[`Chip`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/material/Chip-class.html
[`ColorFilter`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/dart-ui/ColorFilter-class.html
[`FadeInImage`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/FadeInImage-class.html
[`Opacity`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/Opacity-class.html
[`ShaderMask`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/ShaderMask-class.html
[`Text`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/Text-class.html
[Transparent image]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/Opacity-class.html#transparent-image

### Render grids and lists lazily

Use the lazy methods, with callbacks,
when building large grids or lists.
That way only the visible portion of the
screen is built at startup time.

Also see:

* [Working with long lists][] in the [Cookbook][]
* [Creating a ListView that loads one page at a time][]
  a community article by AbdulRahman AlHamali
* [`Listview.builder`][] API

[Cookbook]: {{site.url}}/cookbook
[Creating a ListView that loads one page at a time]: {{site.medium}}/saugo360/flutter-creating-a-listview-that-loads-one-page-at-a-time-c5c91b6fabd3
[`Listview.builder`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/ListView/ListView.builder.html
[Working with long lists]: {{site.url}}/cookbook/lists/long-lists

###  Build and display frames in 16ms

Since there are two separate threads for building
and rendering, you have 16ms for building,
and 16ms for rendering on a 60Hz display.
If latency is a concern,
build and display a frame in 16ms _or less_.
Note that means built in 8ms or less,
and rendered in 8ms or less,
for a total of 16ms or less.
If missing frames (jankyness) is a concern,
then 16ms for each of
the build and render stages is OK.

If your frames are rendering in well under
16ms total in [profile mode][],
you likely don’t have to worry about performance even if some
performance pitfalls apply,
but you should still aim to build and
render a frame as fast as possible. Why?

* Lowering the frame render time below 16ms might not make a visual
  difference, but it **improves battery life** and thermal issues.
* It might run fine on your device, but consider performance for the
  lowest device you are targeting.
* When 120fps devices become widely available,
  you’ll want to render frames in under 8ms (total)
  in order to provide the smoothest experience.

If you are wondering why 60fps leads to a smooth visual experience,
see the video [Why 60fps?][]

[profile mode]: {{site.url}}/testing/build-modes#profile
[Why 60fps?]: {{site.youtube-site}}/watch?v=CaMTIgxCSqU

## Pitfalls

If you need to tune your app’s performance,
or perhaps the UI isn't as smooth as you expect,
the Flutter plugin for your IDE can help.
In the Flutter Performance window,
enable the **Show widget rebuild information** check box.
This feature helps you detect when frames are
being rendered and displayed in more than 16ms.
Where possible,
the plugin provides a link to a relevant tip.

The following behaviors might negatively impact
your app's performance.

* Avoid using the `Opacity` widget,
  and particularly avoid it in an animation.
  Use `AnimatedOpacity` or `FadeInImage` instead.
  For more information, see
  [Performance considerations for opacity animation][].

* When using an AnimatedBuilder,
  avoid putting a subtree in the builder
  function that builds widgets that don’t
  depend on the animation. This subtree is
  rebuilt for every tick of the animation.
  Instead, build that part of the subtree
  once and pass it as a child to
  the AnimatedBuilder. For more information,
  see [Performance optimizations][].

* Avoid clipping in an animation.
  If possible, pre-clip the image before animating it.

* Avoid using constructors with a concrete `List`
  of children (such as `Column()` or `ListView()`)
  if most of the children are not visible
  on screen to avoid the build cost.

## Resources

For more performance info, see the following resources:

* [Performance optimizations][] in the AnimatedBuilder API page
* [Performance considerations for opacity animation][]
  in the Opacity API page
* [Child elements' lifecycle][] and how to load them efficiently,
  in the ListView API page
* [Performance considerations][] of a `StatefulWidget`

[Child elements' lifecycle]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/ListView-class.html#child-elements-lifecycle
[Performance optimizations]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/AnimatedBuilder-class.html#performance-optimizations
[Performance considerations for opacity animation]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/Opacity-class.html#performance-considerations-for-opacity-animation

Commit message:

feat: Added reference to const constructors in 'Performance best practices' (#6822)
* feat: added reference to const constructors

* Update src/perf/rendering/best-practices.md

* Update src/perf/rendering/best-practices.md

* Update src/perf/rendering/best-practices.md

* Update best-practices.md

Fixing a broken link.

* chore: fixed broken links

* Update src/perf/rendering/best-practices.md

* Update src/perf/rendering/best-practices.md

Co-authored-by: Shams Zakhour (ignore Sfshaza) <44418985+sfshaza2@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Khanh Nguyen <khanhnwin@gmail.com>

src/perf/rendering/best-practices.md, after:

---
title: Performance best practices
short-title: Best practices
description: How to ensure that your Flutter app is performant.
---

{% include docs/performance.md %}

Generally, Flutter applications are performant by default,
so you only need to avoid common pitfalls to get excellent
performance. These best recommendations will help you
write the most performant Flutter app possible.

If you are writing web apps in Flutter, you might be interested
in a series of articles, written by the Flutter Material team,
after they modified the [Flutter Gallery][] app to make it more
performant on the web:

* [Optimizing performance in Flutter web apps with tree
   shaking and deferred loading][web-perf-1]
* [Improving perceived performance with image placeholders,
   precaching, and disabled navigation transitions][web-perf-2]
* [Building performant Flutter widgets][web-perf-3]


[Flutter Gallery]: {{site.gallery}}
[web-perf-1]: {{site.flutter-medium}}/optimizing-performance-in-flutter-web-apps-with-tree-shaking-and-deferred-loading-535fbe3cd674
[web-perf-2]: {{site.flutter-medium}}/improving-perceived-performance-with-image-placeholders-precaching-and-disabled-navigation-6b3601087a2b
[web-perf-3]: {{site.flutter-medium}}/building-performant-flutter-widgets-3b2558aa08fa

## Best practices

How do you design a Flutter app to most efficiently
render your scenes? In particular, how do you ensure
that the painting code generated by the
framework is as efficient as possible?
Here are a few things to consider
when designing your app:

### Controlling build() cost

* Avoid repetitive and costly work in `build()` methods
  since `build()` can be invoked frequently when
  ancestor Widgets rebuild.
* Avoid overly large single Widgets with a large `build()` function.
  Split them into different Widgets based on encapsulation
  but also on how they change:
  * When `setState()` is called on a State, all descendent widgets
    rebuild. Therefore, localize the `setState()` call to the part of
    the subtree whose UI actually needs to change. Avoid calling
    setState() high up in the tree if the change is contained
    to a small part of the tree.
  * The traversal to rebuild all descendents stops when the
    same instance of the child widget as the previous
    frame is re-encountered. This technique is heavily
    used inside the framework for optimizing
    animations where the animation doesn't affect the child subtree.
    See the [`TransitionBuilder`][] pattern and
    the [source code for `SlideTransition`][],
    which uses this principle to avoid rebuilding its
    descendents when animating.

Use `const` constructors on widgets as much as possible, since
they allow Flutter to short-circuit most of the rebuild work. To create
reusable pieces of UIs, prefer using a [`StatelessWidget`][] rather than
a function.

Also see:

* [Performance considerations][], part of the [`StatefulWidget`][] API doc
* [Widgets vs helper methods][], a video from the official Flutter YouTube 
  channel that explains why widgets (especially widgets with `const` constructors)
  are more performant than functions.

[Performance considerations]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/StatefulWidget-class.html#performance-considerations
[source code for `SlideTransition`]: {{site.repo.flutter}}/blob/master/packages/flutter/lib/src/widgets/transitions.dart#L168
[`StatefulWidget`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/StatefulWidget-class.html
[`StatelessWidget`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/StatelessWidget-class.html
[`TransitionBuilder`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/TransitionBuilder.html
[Widgets vs helper methods]: {{site.youtube-site}}/watch?v=IOyq-eTRhvo

### Apply effects only when needed

Use effects carefully, as they can be expensive.
Some of them invoke `saveLayer()` behind the scenes,
which can be an expensive operation.

{{site.alert.secondary}}
  <h4>Why is savelayer expensive?</h4><a name="why-is-savelayer-expensive"></a>
  Calling `saveLayer()` allocates an offscreen buffer.
  Drawing content into the offscreen buffer might trigger
  render target switches that are particularly slow in
  older GPUs.
{{site.alert.end}}

Some general rules when applying specific effects:

* Use the [`Opacity`][] widget only when necessary.
  See the [Transparent image][] section in the Opacity
  API page for an example of applying opacity directly
  to an image, which is faster than using the Opacity
  widget.
* **Clipping** doesn’t call `saveLayer()` (unless
  explicitly requested with `Clip.antiAliasWithSaveLayer`)
  so these operations aren’t as expensive as Opacity,
  but clipping is still costly, so use with caution.
  By default, clipping is disabled (`Clip.none`),
  so you must explicitly enable it when needed.

Other widgets that might trigger `saveLayer()`
and are potentially costly:

* [`ShaderMask`][]
* [`ColorFilter`][]
* [`Chip`][]&mdash;might cause call to `saveLayer()` if
  `disabledColorAlpha != 0xff`
* [`Text`][]&mdash;might cause call to `saveLayer()`
  if there's an `overflowShader`

Ways to avoid calls to `saveLayer()`:

* To implement fading in an image, consider using the
  [`FadeInImage`][] widget,
  which applies a gradual opacity using the GPU’s fragment shader.
  For more information, see the [`Opacity`][] docs.
* To create a rectangle with rounded corners, instead of applying a
  clipping rectangle, consider using the `borderRadius` property offered
  by many of the widget classes.

[`Chip`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/material/Chip-class.html
[`ColorFilter`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/dart-ui/ColorFilter-class.html
[`FadeInImage`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/FadeInImage-class.html
[`Opacity`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/Opacity-class.html
[`ShaderMask`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/ShaderMask-class.html
[`Text`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/Text-class.html
[Transparent image]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/Opacity-class.html#transparent-image

### Render grids and lists lazily

Use the lazy methods, with callbacks,
when building large grids or lists.
That way only the visible portion of the
screen is built at startup time.

Also see:

* [Working with long lists][] in the [Cookbook][]
* [Creating a ListView that loads one page at a time][]
  a community article by AbdulRahman AlHamali
* [`Listview.builder`][] API

[Cookbook]: {{site.url}}/cookbook
[Creating a ListView that loads one page at a time]: {{site.medium}}/saugo360/flutter-creating-a-listview-that-loads-one-page-at-a-time-c5c91b6fabd3
[`Listview.builder`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/ListView/ListView.builder.html
[Working with long lists]: {{site.url}}/cookbook/lists/long-lists

###  Build and display frames in 16ms

Since there are two separate threads for building
and rendering, you have 16ms for building,
and 16ms for rendering on a 60Hz display.
If latency is a concern,
build and display a frame in 16ms _or less_.
Note that means built in 8ms or less,
and rendered in 8ms or less,
for a total of 16ms or less.
If missing frames (jankyness) is a concern,
then 16ms for each of
the build and render stages is OK.

If your frames are rendering in well under
16ms total in [profile mode][],
you likely don’t have to worry about performance even if some
performance pitfalls apply,
but you should still aim to build and
render a frame as fast as possible. Why?

* Lowering the frame render time below 16ms might not make a visual
  difference, but it **improves battery life** and thermal issues.
* It might run fine on your device, but consider performance for the
  lowest device you are targeting.
* When 120fps devices become widely available,
  you’ll want to render frames in under 8ms (total)
  in order to provide the smoothest experience.

If you are wondering why 60fps leads to a smooth visual experience,
see the video [Why 60fps?][]

[profile mode]: {{site.url}}/testing/build-modes#profile
[Why 60fps?]: {{site.youtube-site}}/watch?v=CaMTIgxCSqU

## Pitfalls

If you need to tune your app’s performance,
or perhaps the UI isn't as smooth as you expect,
the Flutter plugin for your IDE can help.
In the Flutter Performance window,
enable the **Show widget rebuild information** check box.
This feature helps you detect when frames are
being rendered and displayed in more than 16ms.
Where possible,
the plugin provides a link to a relevant tip.

The following behaviors might negatively impact
your app's performance.

* Avoid using the `Opacity` widget,
  and particularly avoid it in an animation.
  Use `AnimatedOpacity` or `FadeInImage` instead.
  For more information, see
  [Performance considerations for opacity animation][].

* When using an AnimatedBuilder,
  avoid putting a subtree in the builder
  function that builds widgets that don’t
  depend on the animation. This subtree is
  rebuilt for every tick of the animation.
  Instead, build that part of the subtree
  once and pass it as a child to
  the AnimatedBuilder. For more information,
  see [Performance optimizations][].

* Avoid clipping in an animation.
  If possible, pre-clip the image before animating it.

* Avoid using constructors with a concrete `List`
  of children (such as `Column()` or `ListView()`)
  if most of the children are not visible
  on screen to avoid the build cost.

## Resources

For more performance info, see the following resources:

* [Performance optimizations][] in the AnimatedBuilder API page
* [Performance considerations for opacity animation][]
  in the Opacity API page
* [Child elements' lifecycle][] and how to load them efficiently,
  in the ListView API page
* [Performance considerations][] of a `StatefulWidget`

[Child elements' lifecycle]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/ListView-class.html#child-elements-lifecycle
[Performance optimizations]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/AnimatedBuilder-class.html#performance-optimizations
[Performance considerations for opacity animation]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/Opacity-class.html#performance-considerations-for-opacity-animation
