---
title: Flutter crash reporting
description: How Google uses crash reporting, what is collected, and how to opt out.
---

If you have not opted-out of Flutter's analytics and crash reporting,
when a `flutter` command crashes it attempts to send a crash report
to Google in order to help Google contribute improvements to Flutter
over time. A crash report may contain the following information:

* The name and version of your local operating system.
* The version of Flutter.
* The runtime type of the error, for example `StateError` or 
  `NoSuchMethodError`.
* The stack trace generated by the crash, which contains references to 
  the Flutter CLI's own code and contains no references to your application 
  code.
* A client ID: a constant and unique number generated for the
  computer where Flutter is installed.
  It helps us deduplicate multiple identical crash
  reports coming from the same computer.
  It also helps us verify if a fix works
  as intended after you upgrade to the next version of Flutter.

Google handles all data reported by this tool in accordance with the 
[Google Privacy Policy][].

Additionally, you may review the recently reported data in the 
`.dart-tool/dart-flutter-telemetry.log` file under the home directory
`~/` (macOS/Linux) or the `<username>\AppData` (Windows) directory. 

## Disabling analytics reporting

To opt out of anonymous crash reporting and feature
usage statistics, run the following command:

```terminal
$ flutter --disable-telemetry
```

If you opt out of analytics, an opt-out event will be sent,
and then no further information will be stored or sent by that
installation of Flutter. 

To opt into analytics, run the following command: 

```terminal
$ flutter --enable-telemetry
```

To display the current setting, you can run the following command:

```terminal
$ flutter config
```

[Google Privacy Policy]: https://policies.google.com/privacy
