---
title: Introducing package:flutter_lints
description: Migrate to package:flutter_lints to get the latest set of recommended lints, which encourage good coding practices.
---

## Summary

The [`package:flutter_lints`][] defines the latest set of recommended lints that
encourage good coding practices for Flutter apps, packages, and plugins. Projects
created with `flutter create` using Flutter version 2.3.0-12.0.pre or newer are
already enabled to use the latest set of recommended lints. Projects created
prior to that version can upgrade to it with the instructions in this guide.

## Context

Prior to the introduction of `package:flutter_lints`, the Flutter framework
shipped with a set of lints defined in [`analysis_options_user.yaml`][] that was
used by the [dart analyzer][] to identify code issues if a Flutter project
didn't define a custom `analysis_options.yaml` file. Since `analysis_options_user.yaml`
was tied to a particular framework version, it was difficult to evolve without
breaking existing apps, packages, and plugins. As a result of that, the lints
defined in `analysis_options_user.yaml` are heavily outdated. To fix this,
`package:flutter_lints` was created. The package versions the lint set to enable
evolving it without breaking existing projects. Since the package builds on
Dart's [`package:lints`][] it also aligns the lints recommended for Flutter
projects with the rest of the Dart ecosystem.

## Migration guide

Follow these steps to migrate your Flutter project to use the latest recommended
lints from `package:flutter_lints`:

Add a dev_dependency on `package:flutter_lints` to your project's `pubspec.yaml`
by running `flutter pub add --dev flutter_lints` in the root directory of the
project.

Create an `analysis_options.yaml` file in the root directory of your project
(next to the `pubspec.yaml` file) with the following content:
```yaml
include: package:flutter_lints/flutter.yaml
```

The newly activated lint set may identify some new issues in your code. To find
them, open your project in an [IDE with Dart support][] or run `flutter analyze`
on the command line. You may be able to fix some of the reported issues
automatically by running `dart fix --apply` in the root directory of your
project.

### Existing custom analysis_options.yaml file

If your project already has a custom `analysis_options.yaml` file at its root,
add `include: package:flutter_lints/flutter.yaml` to it at the top to activate
the lints from `package:flutter_lints`. If your `analysis_options.yaml` already
contains an `include:` directive you have to decide whether you want to keep
those lints or whether you want to replace it with the lints from
`package:flutter_lints` because the Dart analyzer only supports one `include:`
directive per `analysis_options.yaml` file.

## Customizing the lints

The lints activated for a given project can be further customized in the
`analysis_options.yaml` file. This is shown in the example file below, which is
a reproduction of the `analysis_options.yaml` file generated by `flutter create`
for new projects.

```yaml
# This file configures the analyzer, which statically analyzes Dart code to
# check for errors, warnings, and lints.
#
# The issues identified by the analyzer are surfaced in the UI of Dart-enabled
# IDEs (https://dart.dev/tools#ides-and-editors). The analyzer can also be
# invoked from the command line by running `flutter analyze`.

# The following line activates a set of recommended lints for Flutter apps,
# packages, and plugins designed to encourage good coding practices.
include: package:flutter_lints/flutter.yaml

linter:
  # The lint rules applied to this project can be customized in the
  # section below to disable rules from the `package:flutter_lints/flutter.yaml`
  # included above or to enable additional rules. A list of all available lints
  # and their documentation is published at
  # https://dart-lang.github.io/linter/lints/index.html.
  #
  # Instead of disabling a lint rule for the entire project in the
  # section below, it can also be suppressed for a single line of code
  # or a specific dart file by using the `// ignore: name_of_lint` and
  # `// ignore_for_file: name_of_lint` syntax on the line or in the file
  # producing the lint.
  rules:
    # avoid_print: false  # Uncomment to disable the `avoid_print` rule
    # prefer_single_quotes: true  # Uncomment to enable the `prefer_single_quotes` rule

# Additional information about this file can be found at
# https://dart.dev/guides/language/analysis-options
```

## Timeline

Landed in version: 2.3.0-12.0.pre<br>
In stable release: not yet

## References

Documentation:

* [`package:flutter_lints`][]
* [Package dependencies][]
* [Customizing static analysis][]

Relevant issues:

* [Issue 78432 - Update lint set for Flutter applications][]

Relevant PRs:

* [Add flutter_lints package][]
* [Integrate package:flutter_lints into templates][]

[Add flutter_lints package]: {{site.github}}/flutter/packages/pull/343
[`analysis_options_user.yaml`]: {{site.github}}/flutter/flutter/blob/master/packages/flutter/lib/analysis_options_user.yaml
[Customizing static analysis]: {{site.dart-site}}/guides/language/analysis-options
[dart analyzer]: {{site.dart-site}}/guides/language/analysis-options
[IDE with Dart support]: {{site.dart-site}}/tools#ides-and-editors
[Integrate package:flutter_lints into templates]: {{site.github}}/flutter/flutter/pull/81417
[Issue 78432 - Update lint set for Flutter applications]: {{site.github}}/flutter/flutter/issues/78432
[`package:flutter_lints`]: {{site.pub}}/packages/flutter_lints
[`package:lints`]: {{site.pub}}/packages/lints
[Package dependencies]: {{site.dart-site}}/tools/pub/dependencies
