src/docs/get-started/install/_path-linux-chromeos.md, before:

### Update your path

You can update your PATH variable for the current session at
the command line, as shown in [Get the Flutter SDK][].
You'll probably want to update this variable permanently,
so you can run `flutter` commands in any terminal session.

The steps for modifying this variable permanently for
all terminal sessions are machine-specific.
Typically you add a line to a file that is executed
whenever you open a new window. For example:

 1. Determine the path of your clone of the Flutter SDK.
    You need this in Step 3.
 2. Open (or create) the `rc` file for your shell.
    For example, Linux uses the Bash shell by default,
    so edit `$HOME/.bashrc`.
    If you are using a different shell, the file path
    and filename will be different on your machine.
 3. Add the following line and change
    `[PATH_OF_FLUTTER_GIT_DIRECTORY]` to be
    the path of your clone of the Flutter git repo:

    ```terminal
    $ export PATH="$PATH:[PATH_OF_FLUTTER_GIT_DIRECTORY]/bin"
    ```

 4. Run `source $HOME/.<rc file>`
    to refresh the current window,
    or open a new terminal window to
    automatically source the file.
 5. Verify that the `flutter/bin` directory
    is now in your PATH by running:

    ```terminal
    $ echo $PATH
    ```
    Verify that the `flutter` command is available by running:

    ```terminal
    $ which flutter
    ```

{% include docs/dart-tool.md %}

### Update path directly

In some cases, your distribution may not permanently acquire
the path when using the above directions. When this occurs,
you can change the environment variables file directly.
These instructions require administrator privileges:

   1. Determine the path of your clone of the Flutter SDK.

   2. Locate the `etc` directory at the root of the system,
      and open the `profile` file with root privileges.

        ```terminal
        $ sudo nano /etc/profile
        ```
   3. Update the PATH string with the location of your
      Flutter SDK directory.

      ```shell
      if [ "`id -u`" -eq 0 ]; then
         PATH="..."
      else
         PATH="/usr/local/bin:...:[PATH_OF_FLUTTER_GIT_DIRECTORY]/bin"
      fi
      export PATH
      ```

   4. End the current session or reboot your system.
   5. Once you start a new session, verify that the
      `flutter` command is available by running:

      ```terminal
      $ which flutter
      ```

For more details on setting the path in Bash,
see [this StackExchange question][bash].
For information on setting the path in Z shell,
see [this StackOverflow question][zsh].


[Get the Flutter SDK]: #get-sdk
[bash]: https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/26047/how-to-correctly-add-a-path-to-path
[zsh]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11530090/adding-a-new-entry-to-the-path-variable-in-zsh

Commit message:

Replace hard-coded links with definitions in `_config.yml` (#6392)
* ✨ Add several site definitions

* ♻️ Replace links with definitions
Except: release notes, changelogs

* 🚑️ Fix typo

* 💚 Fix invalid links

Co-authored-by: Shams Zakhour (ignore Sfshaza) <44418985+sfshaza2@users.noreply.github.com>

src/docs/get-started/install/_path-linux-chromeos.md, after:

### Update your path

You can update your PATH variable for the current session at
the command line, as shown in [Get the Flutter SDK][].
You'll probably want to update this variable permanently,
so you can run `flutter` commands in any terminal session.

The steps for modifying this variable permanently for
all terminal sessions are machine-specific.
Typically you add a line to a file that is executed
whenever you open a new window. For example:

 1. Determine the path of your clone of the Flutter SDK.
    You need this in Step 3.
 2. Open (or create) the `rc` file for your shell.
    For example, Linux uses the Bash shell by default,
    so edit `$HOME/.bashrc`.
    If you are using a different shell, the file path
    and filename will be different on your machine.
 3. Add the following line and change
    `[PATH_OF_FLUTTER_GIT_DIRECTORY]` to be
    the path of your clone of the Flutter git repo:

    ```terminal
    $ export PATH="$PATH:[PATH_OF_FLUTTER_GIT_DIRECTORY]/bin"
    ```

 4. Run `source $HOME/.<rc file>`
    to refresh the current window,
    or open a new terminal window to
    automatically source the file.
 5. Verify that the `flutter/bin` directory
    is now in your PATH by running:

    ```terminal
    $ echo $PATH
    ```
    Verify that the `flutter` command is available by running:

    ```terminal
    $ which flutter
    ```

{% include docs/dart-tool.md %}

### Update path directly

In some cases, your distribution may not permanently acquire
the path when using the above directions. When this occurs,
you can change the environment variables file directly.
These instructions require administrator privileges:

   1. Determine the path of your clone of the Flutter SDK.

   2. Locate the `etc` directory at the root of the system,
      and open the `profile` file with root privileges.

        ```terminal
        $ sudo nano /etc/profile
        ```
   3. Update the PATH string with the location of your
      Flutter SDK directory.

      ```shell
      if [ "`id -u`" -eq 0 ]; then
         PATH="..."
      else
         PATH="/usr/local/bin:...:[PATH_OF_FLUTTER_GIT_DIRECTORY]/bin"
      fi
      export PATH
      ```

   4. End the current session or reboot your system.
   5. Once you start a new session, verify that the
      `flutter` command is available by running:

      ```terminal
      $ which flutter
      ```

For more details on setting the path in Bash,
see [this StackExchange question][bash].
For information on setting the path in Z shell,
see [this StackOverflow question][zsh].


[Get the Flutter SDK]: #get-sdk
[bash]: https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/26047/how-to-correctly-add-a-path-to-path
[zsh]: {{site.so}}/questions/11530090/adding-a-new-entry-to-the-path-variable-in-zsh
