src/docs/get-started/install/_windows-desktop-setup.md, before:

## Windows setup

{{site.alert.warning}}
  **Beta!**
  This area covers desktop support,
  which is available as a beta release.
  Beta support still has notable feature gaps,
  including accessibility support.
  You can try a beta snapshot of desktop support
  on the stable channel, or you can keep up
  with the latest changes to desktop on the
  beta channel.
  For more information, see the **Desktop**
  section in [What's new in Flutter 2][],
  a free article on Medium.
{{site.alert.end}}

[What's new in Flutter 2]: {{site.flutter-medium}}/whats-new-in-flutter-2-0-fe8e95ecc65

### Additional Windows requirements

For Windows desktop development, you need the following in addition to the Flutter SDK:

* [Visual Studio 2019][] (not to be confused with
  Visual Studio _Code_) with the
  "Desktop development with C++" workload installed,
  including all of its default components

[Visual Studio 2019]: https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/

### Enable desktop support

At the command line, perform the following command to enable desktop support

```terminal
$ flutter config --enable-windows-desktop
```

For more information, see [Desktop support for Flutter][]

[Desktop support for Flutter]: https://flutter.dev/desktop

Commit message:

Desktop changes (#5820)
* Revert "Revert "WinUWP support (#5802)" (#5804)"

This reverts commit 1974e8a28894696825b76eb3453ce93ba977dc47.

* tidyup

* dev release -> alpha release

* whitespace

* Adding #windows-uwp

src/docs/get-started/install/_windows-desktop-setup.md, after:

## Windows setup

{{site.alert.warning}}
  **Beta (Win32) and Dev (UWP)!**
  This area covers Windows desktop support,
  which is available in beta release (Win32)
  and alpha release (UWP).

  The Win32 variant still has notable feature gaps,
  including accessibility support, while the
  UWP variant is still in very active development.

  You can try a beta snapshot of Win32 desktop support
  on the stable channel, or you can keep up
  with the latest changes to desktop on the
  `beta` channel. For Windows UWP you need
  to be on the `dev` channel.

  For more information, see the **Desktop**
  section in [What's new in Flutter 2][],
  a free article on Medium.
{{site.alert.end}}

[What's new in Flutter 2]: {{site.flutter-medium}}/whats-new-in-flutter-2-0-fe8e95ecc65

### Additional Windows requirements

For Windows desktop development, you need the following in addition to the Flutter SDK:

* [Visual Studio 2019][] (not to be confused with
  Visual Studio _Code_). For Win32 you need the
  "Desktop development with C++" workload installed,
  including all of its default components. For UWP
  you need the "Universal Windows Platform development"
  workload installed, with the optional UWP C++ tools.
[Visual Studio 2019]: https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/

### Enable desktop support

At the command line, perform the following command to enable Win32 desktop support

```terminal
$ flutter config --enable-windows-desktop
```

For Windows UWP desktop support perform the following commands to switch to
the `dev` channel, upgrade Flutter, and enable UWP.

```terminal
$ flutter channel dev
$ flutter upgrade
$ flutter config --enable-windows-uwp-desktop
```

For more information, see [Desktop support for Flutter][]

[Desktop support for Flutter]: https://flutter.dev/desktop
