src/apprentice-giveaway/index.md, before:

---
title: Get free access to Flutter Apprentice
description: You can have free online access to Flutter Apprentice book through January 6, 2022.
---

We’re giving you FREE access to Flutter Apprentice from
October 6, 2021 through January 6, 2022.

![Screenshot of book cover](/assets/images/homepage/apprentice-cover.png)

Flutter is partnering with [Razeware][],
the team behind the Ray Wenderlich tutorial series,
to provide free, online access to _Flutter Apprentice_.

On top of free access to Flutter Apprentice,
we’re excited to be partnering with the
Flutter Community YouTube channel, Flutteristas,
and other prominent leaders in the Flutter community
to host the _Flutter Apprentice Book Club_.
Every Wednesday at 12pm EST / 9am PST,
you can join us on the Flutter Community YouTube
channel for summaries, discussions, and more. 

## How to sign up!

Here’s what you need to do:

1. Create an account on [raywenderlich.com/flutter][].
1. Read [Flutter Apprentice][].
1. Join one (or more!) of our [online discussions][schedule].
1. To hear more from the Flutter team,
   subscribe to our [newsletter][].
1. Join the Flutter community on [Twitter][], [YouTube][],
   and [Slack][].

Get started on your journey to learning Flutter
and we’ll see you along the way!

<section class="landing-page__cta card text-center">
    <div class="card-body">
        <h2 class="landing-page__cta__headline">Sign up today. It's free!</h2>
        <a class="landing-page__cta__button btn btn-primary btn-cta" href="https://store.raywenderlich.com/products/flutter-apprentice-google">Sign up now</a>
    </div>
</section>

![Image of Professor Dash](/assets/images/homepage/smart-dash.png)

---

## Book club schedule {#schedule}

We’re collaborating with the Flutter Community to host
weekly book club livestreams to answer your questions.
Join us on the Flutter Community YouTube channel every
Wednesday at 9am PT / 12pm EST.
Read each week’s chapter(s) prior to the livestream to
ensure maximum preparedness. The schedule is below.

You can find the [live stream][] on YouTube.

<div class="table-wrapper" markdown="1">
|**Date**     | **Homework**                   | **Live stream topic**      |
| October 6+  | Sign up for free access!<br>Check out the first live stream for details. | 
| October 13  | Read chapters 1, 2              | Getting started            |
| October 20  | Read chapters 3, 4              | Widgets                    |
| October 27  | Read chapters 5, 6              | More widgets               |
| November 3  | Read chapters 7, 8              | Navigation                 |
| November 10 | Read chapters 9, 15 (1st half)  | Data persistence           |
| November 17 | Read chapters 10, 11            | Networking & serialization |
| November 24 | Read chapters 12, 13            | State management           |
| December 1  | Read chapters 14, 15 (2nd half) | Streams                    |
| December 8  | Read chapters 16, 17, 18        | Deployment                 |
| December 15 | Read chapter  19                | Firebase                   |
{:.table .table-striped .nowrap}
</div>


[Flutter Apprentice]: https://www.raywenderlich.com/books/flutter-apprentice
[live stream]: {{site.youtube-site}}/playlist?list=PL4dBIh1xps-HAaadBRWQobCO_IJ4gMOG2
[newsletter]: /subscribe
[Razeware]: https://www.raywenderlich.com/
[raywenderlich.com/flutter]: https://store.raywenderlich.com/products/flutter-apprentice-google
[schedule]: #schedule
[Twitter]: https://twitter.com/FlutterDev
[YouTube]: {{site.youtube-site}}/c/FlutterCommunityVideos
[Slack]: https://fluttercommunity.dev/joinslack

Commit message:

Adding the video to the apprentice page (#6370)

src/apprentice-giveaway/index.md, after:

---
title: Get free access to Flutter Apprentice
description: You can have free online access to Flutter Apprentice book through January 6, 2022.
---

We’re giving you FREE access to Flutter Apprentice from
October 6, 2021 through January 6, 2022.

![Screenshot of book cover](/assets/images/homepage/apprentice-cover.png)

Flutter is partnering with [Razeware][],
the team behind the Ray Wenderlich tutorial series,
to provide free, online access to _Flutter Apprentice_.

On top of free access to Flutter Apprentice,
we’re excited to be partnering with the
Flutter Community YouTube channel, Flutteristas,
and other prominent leaders in the Flutter community
to host the _Flutter Apprentice Book Club_.
Every Wednesday at 12pm EST / 9am PST,
you can join us on the Flutter Community YouTube
channel for summaries, discussions, and more. 

For more information, watch the following video:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/NVzIALG7CUc" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## How to sign up!

Here’s what you need to do:

1. Create an account on [raywenderlich.com/flutter][].
1. Read [Flutter Apprentice][].
1. Join one (or more!) of our [online discussions][schedule].
1. To hear more from the Flutter team,
   subscribe to our [newsletter][].
1. Join the Flutter community on [Twitter][], [YouTube][],
   and [Slack][].

Get started on your journey to learning Flutter
and we’ll see you along the way!

<section class="landing-page__cta card text-center">
    <div class="card-body">
        <h2 class="landing-page__cta__headline">Sign up today. It's free!</h2>
        <a class="landing-page__cta__button btn btn-primary btn-cta" href="https://store.raywenderlich.com/products/flutter-apprentice-google">Sign up now</a>
    </div>
</section>

![Image of Professor Dash](/assets/images/homepage/smart-dash.png)

---

## Book club schedule {#schedule}

We’re collaborating with the Flutter Community to host
weekly book club livestreams to answer your questions.
Join us on the Flutter Community YouTube channel every
Wednesday at 9am PT / 12pm EST.
Read each week’s chapter(s) prior to the livestream to
ensure maximum preparedness. The schedule is below.

You can find the [live stream][] on YouTube.

<div class="table-wrapper" markdown="1">
|**Date**     | **Homework**                    | **Live stream topic**      |
| October 6+  | Sign up for free access!<br>Check out the first live stream for details. | 
| October 13  | Read chapters 1, 2              | Getting started            |
| October 20  | Read chapters 3, 4              | Widgets                    |
| October 27  | Read chapters 5, 6              | More widgets               |
| November 3  | Read chapters 7, 8              | Navigation                 |
| November 10 | Read chapters 9, 15 (1st half)  | Data persistence           |
| November 17 | Read chapters 10, 11            | Networking & serialization |
| November 24 | Read chapters 12, 13            | State management           |
| December 1  | Read chapters 14, 15 (2nd half) | Streams                    |
| December 8  | Read chapters 16, 17, 18        | Deployment                 |
| December 15 | Read chapter  19                | Firebase                   |
{:.table .table-striped .nowrap}
</div>


[Flutter Apprentice]: https://www.raywenderlich.com/books/flutter-apprentice
[live stream]: {{site.youtube-site}}/playlist?list=PL4dBIh1xps-HAaadBRWQobCO_IJ4gMOG2
[newsletter]: /subscribe
[Razeware]: https://www.raywenderlich.com/
[raywenderlich.com/flutter]: https://store.raywenderlich.com/products/flutter-apprentice-google
[schedule]: #schedule
[Twitter]: https://twitter.com/FlutterDev
[YouTube]: {{site.youtube-site}}/c/FlutterCommunityVideos
[Slack]: https://fluttercommunity.dev/joinslack
