---
title: "How Dart and Flutter are thinking about AI in 2026"
description: "Last month, we published Flutter and Dart’s 2026 Roadmap, a peek into how our teams are approaching our core mission: Building the most…"
publishDate: 2026-04-01
author: mariam_hasnany
image: images/1acnlJyV5J3HU4jFbo2LQog.gif
layout: blog
---

<DashImage figure src="images/1acnlJyV5J3HU4jFbo2LQog.gif" alt="Dash imagines the future" caption="Dash imagines the future" />


Last month, we published [Flutter and Dart’s 2026 Roadmap](https://blog.flutter.dev/flutter-darts-2026-roadmap-89378f17ebbd), a peek into how our teams are approaching our core mission: Building the most popular, fastest growing, and highest-productivity multi-platform UI framework. But it’s impossible to talk about development in 2026 without acknowledging AI.

To meet this moment, today we are sharing our data-driven and honest thoughts on *how* our teams approach Dart and Flutter + AI in 2026. This post is intended to be less of a roadmap and more of a collection of thoughts guiding our strategy. Transparency is a core pillar of Flutter, and as an open source project, we believe in the value of experimentation in public. Interpret this as a snapshot of how we’re thinking about AI today; we value your input and feedback but we also recognize that, in this rapidly shifting environment, strategy and approach may change as models, tools, and their use evolve.

## The Agentic shift by the numbers

Flutter gained initial traction by staying ahead of the curve and adapting nimbly to the needs of developers building cross-platform. Now, AI represents another variable in how we think about our ecosystem. Not because every developer needs to use AI, but because we need to consider how it’s shifting our goals for those who do.

AI adoption is no longer a future trend; it is the current reality. The [2025 Stack Overflow Developer Survey](https://survey.stackoverflow.co/2025/ai) showed that 84% of all developers use AI tools in some way within their daily workflows, and in our [2025 Flutter User Survey](https://docs.flutter.dev/reference/user-surveys), we found that 79% of Flutter developers specifically report using AI assistants while working with Flutter.

However, this rapid adoption has revealed a significant “trust gap.” While [73% of developers feel more productive](https://github.blog/news-insights/research/research-quantifying-github-copilots-impact-on-developer-productivity-and-happiness/#finding-1-developer-productivity-goes-beyond-speed) because they can reduce the friction of starting new tasks, [46% do not yet trust the accuracy](https://survey.stackoverflow.co/2025/ai#developer-tools-ai-acc-ai-acc) of AI tools for critical tasks like writing, debugging, or fixing code. This leads to a “verification tax” — the time engineers pay auditing the output or fine-tuning instructions to achieve correctness.

## Our approach: Who we build for and the principles that guide us

As the premier multi-platform UI framework from Google, Flutter is uniquely positioned to focus on the AI builders in our ecosystem. The principles ensure that Dart and Flutter remain the most reliable choice for developers building apps that run on any screen.

### Who we are solving for

Our strategy addresses builders across the spectrum of AI adoption from traditional to agentic development:

* **The traditional developer:** Earn trust in AI for those who depend on core Dart and Flutter tooling. Traditional developers care deeply about thinking through problems themselves and using developer tools to dig under the hood. We aim to improve the existing foundation for them, which in turn improves the quality of AI and builds trust in agentic development.

* **The AI-assisted developer:** Improve productivity with AI for those who have adopted AI coding agents in their Dart and Flutter workflows. These engineers rely on AI for repetitive, tedious tasks and boilerplate code so they can spend more time on complex functional and architectural code. Our developer experience team is exploring AI tooling such as MCP servers, Agent Skills and other solutions in this space.

* **The AI-first developer :** Make AI work for those who haven’t yet discovered Flutter is the best way to build their apps. These builders are creating apps with natural language. By recognizing where their needs overlap other personas, we ensure our framework is ready for the future of AI development. Collaborations here might include guidance on Flutter with Antigravity, and other vibe-coding products that reflect [“Vibe once, deploy everywhere” concept introduced at Google I/O 2025](https://youtu.be/v6Rzo5khNE8?si=9sKcyc0Rlgevoe7L&t=2432).

### Our driving principles

* **Humans first:** Dart remains a “human first” language. We prioritize making code readable and manageable for developers, even when it is generated by agents.

* **Add, don’t replace:** AI tools should add and improve the experience of building with Dart and Flutter. Each developer should be empowered to use AI assistance as much as they desire, and on a timeline that they choose. We intend to ensure AI is grounded in our documentation and foundational tooling as the source of truth.

* **Open standards & agent agnostic:** We meet developers where they are. By leveraging open standards like the Model Context Protocol (MCP), we ensure Flutter works well with any agent you choose, not just Gemini. For example, we recently added an MCP tool to ensure hot reload can be used during AI Assisted development.

* **Trust through quality:** We aim to solve the “verification tax” by ensuring AI-generated code is accurate, idiomatic, and compliant with project standards. Ongoing investments and partnerships with Google Deepmind and Antigravity on model evaluation drive quality from the model through to AI developer tools. If you’re a model engineer, hit us up, we’d love to make your model write beautiful Dart code!

## Let us know what you think

We are intentionally experimenting in public because no one knows exactly where this space is going. We invite the community to join us, share your feedback, and help steer the future of Dart and Flutter. Comment here, on social media, or via community forums; we value your thoughts and these conversations.

… Or continue building apps without AI, that’s totally valid too, and we welcome feedback on our developer roadmap in our previous post. For a deeper dive into our plans, you can view the full [official 2026 Roadmap](https://github.com/flutter/flutter/blob/master/docs/roadmap/Roadmap.md).