---
title: Accessibility
description: Information on Flutter's accessibility support.
---

Ensuring apps are accessible to a broad range of users is an essential
part of building a high-quality app. Applications that are poorly
designed create barriers to people of all ages. The [UN Convention on
the Rights of Persons with Disabilities][CRPD] states the moral and legal
imperative to ensure universal access to information systems; countries
around the world enforce accessibility as a requirement; and companies
recognize the business advantages of maximizing access to their services.

We strongly encourage you to include an accessibility checklist 
as a key criteria before shipping your app. Flutter is committed to
supporting developers in making their apps more accessible, and includes
first-class framework support for accessibility in addition to that
provided by the underlying operating system, including:

[**Large fonts**][]
: Render text widgets with user-specified font sizes

[**Screen readers**][]
: Communicate spoken feedback about UI contents

[**Sufficient contrast**][]
: Render widgets with colors that have sufficient contrast

Details of these features are discussed below.

## Inspecting accessibility support

In addition to testing for these specific topics,
we recommend using automated accessibility scanners:

  * For Android:
    1. Install the [Accessibility Scanner][] for Android
    1. Enable the Accessibility Scanner from
       **Android Settings > Accessibility >
       Accessibility Scanner > On**
    1. Navigate to the Accessibility Scanner 'checkbox'
       icon button to initiate a scan

  * For iOS:
    1. Open the `iOS` folder of your Flutter app in Xcode
    1. Select a Simulator as the target, and click **Run** button
    1. In Xcode, select
       **Xcode > Open Developer Tools > Accessibility Inspector**
    1. In the Accessibility Inspector,
       select **Inspection > Enable Point to Inspect**,
       and then select the various user interface elements in running
       Flutter app to inspect their accessibility attributes
    1. In the Accessibility Inspector,
       select **Audit** in the toolbar, and then
       select **Run Audit** to get a report of potential issues
 
  * For web:
    1. Open Chrome DevTools (or similar tools in other browsers)
    2. Inspect the HTML tree containing the ARIA attributes generated by Flutter.
    3. In Chrome, the "Elements" tab has a "Accessibility" sub-tab 
       that can be used to inspect the data exported to semantics tree

## Large fonts

Both Android and iOS contain system settings to configure the desired font
sizes used by apps. Flutter text widgets respect this OS setting when
determining font sizes.

Font sizes are calculated automatically by Flutter based on the OS setting.
However, as a developer you should make sure your layout has enough room to
render all its contents when the font sizes are increased.
For example, you can test all parts of your app on a small-screen
device configured to use the largest font setting.

### Example

The following two screenshots show the standard Flutter app
template rendered with the default iOS font setting,
and with the largest font setting selected in iOS accessibility settings.

<div class="row">
  <div class="col-md-6">
    {% include docs/app-figure.md image="a18n/app-regular-fonts.png" caption="Default font setting" img-class="border" %}
  </div>
  <div class="col-md-6">
    {% include docs/app-figure.md image="a18n/app-large-fonts.png" caption="Largest accessibility font setting" img-class="border" %}
  </div>
</div>

## Screen readers

For mobile, screen readers ([TalkBack][], [VoiceOver][])
enable visually impaired users to get spoken feedback about
the contents of the screen and interact with the UI by using
gestures on mobile and keyboard shortcuts on desktop. 
Turn on VoiceOver or TalkBack on your mobile device and
navigate around your app.

**To turn on the screen reader on your device, complete the following steps:**

{% comment %} Nav tabs {% endcomment -%}
<ul class="nav nav-tabs" id="editor-setup" role="tablist">
    <li class="nav-item">
        <a class="nav-link active" id="talkback-tab" href="#talkback" role="tab" aria-controls="talkback" aria-selected="true">TalkBack on Android</a>
    </li>
    <li class="nav-item">
        <a class="nav-link" id="voiceover-tab" href="#voiceover" role="tab" aria-controls="voiceover" aria-selected="false">VoiceOver on iPhone</a>
    </li>
    <li class="nav-item">
        <a class="nav-link" id="browsers-tab" href="#browsers" role="tab" aria-controls="browsers" aria-selected="false">Browsers</a>
    </li>
    <li class="nav-item">
        <a class="nav-link" id="desktop-tab" href="#desktop" role="tab" aria-controls="desktop" aria-selected="false">Desktop</a>
    </li>
</ul>

{% comment %} Tab panes {% endcomment -%}
<div class="tab-content">

<div class="tab-pane active" id="talkback" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="talkback-tab" markdown="1">

1. On your device, open **Settings**.
2. Select **Accessibility** and then **TalkBack**.
3. Turn 'Use TalkBack' on or off.
4. Select Ok.

To learn how to find and customize Android's
accessibility features, view the following video.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="{{site.youtube-site}}/embed/FQyj_XTl01w" title="Customize accessibility features on Pixel" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen>
</iframe>

</div>

<div class="tab-pane" id="voiceover" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="voiceover-tab" markdown="1">

1. On your device, open **Settings > Accessibility > VoiceOver**
2. Turn the VoiceOver setting on or off

To learn how to find and customize iOS
accessibility features, view the following video.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="{{site.youtube-site}}/embed/qDm7GiKra28" title="How to navigate your iPhone or iPad with VoiceOver" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen>
</iframe>

</div>

<div class="tab-pane" id="browsers" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="browsers-tab" markdown="1">

For web, the following screen readers are currently supported:

Mobile browsers:
* iOS - VoiceOver
* Android - TalkBack

Desktop browsers:
* MacOS - VoiceOver
* Windows - JAWs & NVDA

Screen readers users on web must toggle the
"Enable accessibility" button to build the semantics tree.
Users can skip this step if you programmatically auto-enable
accessibility for your app using this API:

```dart
SemanticsBinding.instance.ensureSemantics();
```

</div>

<div class="tab-pane" id="desktop" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="desktop-tab" markdown="1">

Windows comes with a screen reader called Narrator
but some developers recommend using the more popular
NVDA screen reader. To learn about using NVDA to test
Windows apps, check out
[Screen Readers 101 For Front-End Developers (Windows)][nvda].

[nvda]: https://get-evinced.com/blog/screen-readers-101-for-front-end-developers-windows

On a Mac, you can use the desktop version of VoiceOver,
which is included in macOS.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="{{site.youtube-site}}/embed/5R-6WvAihms" title="Screen Reader Basics: VoiceOver -- A11ycasts #07" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen>
</iframe>

On Linux, a popular screen reader is called Orca.
It comes pre-installed with some distributions
and is available on package repositories such as `apt`.
To learn about using Orca, check out
[Getting started with Orca screen reader on Gnome desktop][orca].

[orca]: https://www.a11yproject.com/posts/getting-started-with-orca

</div>
</div>{% comment %} End: Tab panes. {% endcomment -%}

<br/>

Check out the following [video demo][] to see 
Victor Tsaran, who leads the Accessibility program for Material Design, 
using VoiceOver with the Flutter Gallery web app.

Flutter's standard widgets generate an accessibility tree automatically. 
However, if your app needs something different,
it can be customized using the [`Semantics` widget][].

When there is text in your app that should be voiced
with a specific voice, inform the screen reader
which voice to use by calling [`TextSpan.locale`][].
Note that `MaterialApp.locale` and `Localizations.override`
don't affect which voice the screen reader uses.
Usually, the screen reader uses the system voice
except where you explicitly set it with `TextSpan.locale`.

[`TextSpan.locale`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/painting/TextSpan/locale.html

## Sufficient contrast

Sufficient color contrast makes text and images easier to read.
Along with benefitting users with various visual impairments,
sufficient color contrast helps all users when viewing an interface
on devices in extreme lighting conditions,
such as when exposed to direct sunlight or on a display with low
brightness.

The [W3C recommends][]:

* At least 4.5:1 for small text (below 18 point regular or 14 point bold)
* At least 3.0:1 for large text (18 point and above regular or 14 point and
  above bold)

## Building with accessibility in mind

Ensuring your app can be used by everyone means building accessibility
into it from the start. For some apps, that's easier said than done.
In the video below, two of our engineers take a mobile app from a dire
accessibility state to one that takes advantage of Flutter's built-in
widgets to offer a dramatically more accessible experience.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="{{site.youtube-site}}/embed/bWbBgbmAdQs" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Testing accessibility on mobile

Test your app using Flutter's
<a href="https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/flutter_test/AccessibilityGuideline-class.html">Accessibility Guideline API</a>.
This API checks if your app's UI meets Flutter's accessibility recommendations.
These cover recommendations for text contrast, target size, and target labels.

The following example shows how to use the Guideline API on Name Generator.
You created this app as part of the
[Write your first Flutter app]({{site.url}}/get-started/codelab) codelab.
Each button on the app's main screen serves as a tappable target
with text represented in 18 point.

<?code-excerpt path-base="codelabs/namer/step_08"?>
<?code-excerpt "test/a11y_test.dart (insideTest)" indent-by="2"?>
```dart
  final SemanticsHandle handle = tester.ensureSemantics();
  await tester.pumpWidget(MyApp());

  // Checks that tappable nodes have a minimum size of 48 by 48 pixels
  // for Android.
  await expectLater(tester, meetsGuideline(androidTapTargetGuideline));

  // Checks that tappable nodes have a minimum size of 44 by 44 pixels
  // for iOS.
  await expectLater(tester, meetsGuideline(iOSTapTargetGuideline));

  // Checks that touch targets with a tap or long press action are labeled.
  await expectLater(tester, meetsGuideline(labeledTapTargetGuideline));

  // Checks whether semantic nodes meet the minimum text contrast levels.
  // The recommended text contrast is 3:1 for larger text
  // (18 point and above regular).
  await expectLater(tester, meetsGuideline(textContrastGuideline));
  handle.dispose();
```

You can add Guideline API tests
in `test/widget_test.dart` of your app directory, or as a separate test
file (such as `test/a11y_test.dart` in the case of the Name Generator).


## Testing accessibility on web

You can debug accessibility by visualizing the semantic nodes created for your web app
using the following command line flag in profile and release modes:

```terminal
$ flutter run -d chrome --profile --dart-define=FLUTTER_WEB_DEBUG_SHOW_SEMANTICS=true
```
 
With the flag activated, the semantic nodes appear on top of the widgets;
you can verify that the semantic elements are placed where they should be.
If the semantic nodes are incorrectly placed, please [file a bug report][]. 


## Accessibility release checklist

Here is a non-exhaustive list of things to consider as you prepare your
app for release.

- **Active interactions**. Ensure that all active interactions do
something. Any button that can
be pushed should do something when pushed. For example, if you have a
no-op callback for an `onPressed` event, change it to show a `SnackBar`
on the screen explaining which control you just pushed.
- **Screen reader testing**. The screen reader should be able to
describe all controls on the page when you tap on them, and the
descriptions should be intelligible. Test your app with [TalkBack][]
(Android) and [VoiceOver][] (iOS).
- **Contrast ratios**. We encourage you to have a contrast ratio of at
least 4.5:1 between controls or text and the background, with the
exception of disabled components. Images should also be vetted for
sufficient contrast. 
- **Context switching**. Nothing should change the user's context
automatically while typing in information. Generally, the widgets
should avoid changing the user's context without some sort of
confirmation action.
- **Tappable targets**. All tappable targets should be at least 48x48
pixels.
- **Errors**. Important actions should be able to be undone. In fields
that show errors, suggest a correction if possible.
- **Color vision deficiency testing**. Controls should be usable and
legible in colorblind and grayscale modes.
- **Scale factors**. The UI should remain legible and usable at very
large scale factors for text size and display scaling.


## Learn more

To learn more about Flutter and accessibility, check out
the following articles written by community members:

* [A deep dive into Flutter's accessibility widgets][]
* [Semantics in Flutter][]
* [Flutter: Crafting a great experience for screen readers][]

[CRPD]: https://www.un.org/development/desa/disabilities/convention-on-the-rights-of-persons-with-disabilities/article-9-accessibility.html
[A deep dive into Flutter's accessibility widgets]: {{site.medium}}/flutter-community/a-deep-dive-into-flutters-accessibility-widgets-eb0ef9455bc
[Flutter: Crafting a great experience for screen readers]: https://blog.gskinner.com/archives/2022/09/flutter-crafting-a-great-experience-for-screen-readers.html
[Accessibility Scanner]: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.google.android.apps.accessibility.auditor&hl=en
[**Large fonts**]: #large-fonts
[**Screen readers**]: #screen-readers
[Semantics in Flutter]: https://www.didierboelens.com/2018/07/semantics/
[`Semantics` widget]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/Semantics-class.html
[**Sufficient contrast**]: #sufficient-contrast
[TalkBack]: https://support.google.com/accessibility/android/answer/6283677?hl=en
[W3C recommends]: https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/visual-audio-contrast-contrast.html
[VoiceOver]: https://www.apple.com/lae/accessibility/iphone/vision/
[video demo]: {{site.youtube-site}}/watch?v=A6Sx0lBP8PI
[file a bug report]: https://goo.gle/flutter_web_issue
