src/brand/index.md, before:

---
title: Flutter Brand Guidelines
---

The "Flutter" name and logo are trademarks owned by Google.
These Brand Guidelines describe the appropriate uses of the Flutter
trademarks by members of the developer community who have obtained our
consent to use the trademarks pursuant to the [Flutter Terms of Service]({{site.url}}/tos).
These guidelines will ensure that the Flutter trademarks are used in a
manner that promotes Google's mission to provide a free and open source
SDK for crafting high-quality native interfaces on iOS and
Android in record time, and are not associated with objectionable material,
as determined by Google.

Use of the Flutter trademarks that is not expressly permitted by these
guidelines is prohibited absent written permission from Google.

The official Flutter logos can be found in the [Flutter and Dart logo
assets](https://drive.google.com/corp/drive/folders/1KXNtO9My2AMpDOF9A9Y_4aj4_BcgmDDT).

## General Rules That Govern the Use of the Flutter Trademarks

You are free to use the Flutter trademarks: (i) in connection with your
download and use of the Flutter SDK to build and develop
apps, (ii) in training materials (e.g., video tutorials, online publications,
etc.) that provide instructions or tips regarding how to use the Flutter
SDK to build and develop apps, and (iii) to show your support for
the use of the Flutter SDK by members of the developer community.

These guidelines do not restrict your right to use the "Flutter" name
in connection with descriptions of the Flutter SDK that would be
considered "fair use."  For example, you may use the "Flutter"
name to make truthful factual statements (e.g., "built with the Flutter
SDK") or to accurately describe a feature of the Flutter SDK.

You may use the Flutter trademarks on your personal website, personal
blog, or social media account to show your support for the Flutter SDK,
provided you do not use the Flutter trademarks in a way that
could confuse people into thinking that your site is an official Google
site or that Google has sponsored or endorsed your site. In the case of
websites or personal blogs, this means you should not use the Flutter
trademarks as the primary element on the webpage (e.g., in the masthead
of the webpage or the title of the blog). In the case of social media
accounts, this means you should not use the Flutter trademarks in the
background, in your profile image or in your social media username.

## Specific Rules for Proper Usage of the Flutter Trademarks

In addition to the general rules discussed above, below are specific
rules governing the proper use of the Flutter trademarks.

**DO:**

* Use the "Flutter" name as an adjective, never as a noun or verb,
  and never in the plural or possessive form.
* Use a generic term following the "Flutter" name, for example,
  "the Flutter SDK" or "the Flutter UI toolkit."
* Distinguish the "Flutter" name from the surrounding text in some way.
  Capitalize the first letter, capitalize or italicize the entire mark,
  place the mark in quotes, use a different type style or font for the mark.
* Use the trademark symbol <sup>TM</sup> for the first or most prominent
  time the "Flutter" name appears in text on your website or blog.
  Make sure to always use the <sup>TM</sup> symbol,
  not the <sup>&reg;</sup> symbol.
* Include the following text near the first or most prominent use of the
  Flutter marks on your website or blog: "Flutter and the related logo are
  trademarks of Google LLC. We are not endorsed by or affiliated with
  Google LLC."
* Keep some distance between the Flutter trademarks and any other trademarks,
  logos, or icons that are displayed on the webpage.

**DON'T:**

* Don't alter, distort, or modify the Flutter trademarks in any way.
  This includes varying the spelling of the "Flutter" name, or displaying
  the Flutter logo with color variations or unapproved visual elements.
* Don't combine the Google name with the "Flutter" name to form a unitary
  brand (e.g., don’t use the phrases "Google Flutter" or "Google’s Flutter").
  You may use the Google name in full text to accurately describe the
  Flutter SDK (e.g., "The Flutter SDK by Google").
* Don't register the Flutter trademarks or any trademarks, logos,
  or domain names that are confusingly similar to them.
* Don't incorporate the Flutter trademarks into your own product names,
  service names, trademarks, logos, or company names.
* Don't display the Flutter trademarks in a manner that is misleading,
  unfair, defamatory, infringing, libelous, disparaging, obscene or
  otherwise objectionable to Google.
* Don't use the Flutter trademarks on or in connection with the sale of
  any non-software goods or services (e.g., merchandise such as clothing,
  pens, and stickers).

## Community Use Exceptions

To allow for the use of the Flutter trademarks by the Flutter community,
below are specific exceptions to the rules described above:

1. Local Flutter user groups may: (i) use the "Flutter" name
   as part of their social media username in the following format:
   "Flutter + [name of country/city]" (e.g., "Flutter France"); and (ii)
   use the Flutter logo in the national colors of the country where the
   user group is based (e.g., for a user group based in France,
   the colors blue, white and red), provided the Flutter logo is otherwise
   unaltered.  Such social media accounts should include a disclaimer that
   clarifies that it is not an official Google account.

2. You may use the Flutter trademarks as part of the name of a newsletter
   or related community content (e.g., Flutter training courses,
   Flutter community forums) whose purpose is to promote the use of the
   Flutter SDK by members of the developer community.
   Where the Flutter trademarks are displayed on a website as part of a
   community site name, you should use the trademark symbol <sup>TM</sup>
   after the most prominent appearance of the "Flutter" name and include
   the following text: "Flutter and the related logo are trademarks of
   Google LLC.  We are not endorsed by or affiliated with Google LLC."
   Where the Flutter trademarks are displayed on a social media account
   as part of a community site name, you should include a disclaimer that
   clarifies that it is not an official Google account.

3. <b>[Unofficial Flutter Events]</b> You may use the Flutter trademarks as part of the name
   of a community event (e.g. conference), but please make sure to include the following disclaimer
   on the event website in a prominent and easy-to-see spot:  "Flutter and the related logo are trademarks of Google LLC.
   [Title of event] is not affiliated with or otherwise sponsored by Google LLC."

Commit message:

Link to new brand page from trademark guidelines (#6993)

src/brand/index.md, after:

---
title: Flutter Brand Guidelines
---

The "Flutter" name and logo are trademarks owned by Google.
These Brand Guidelines describe the appropriate uses of the Flutter
trademarks by members of the developer community who have obtained our
consent to use the trademarks pursuant to the [Flutter Terms of Service]({{site.url}}/tos).
These guidelines will ensure that the Flutter trademarks are used in a
manner that promotes Google's mission to provide a free and open source
SDK for crafting high-quality native interfaces on iOS and
Android in record time, and are not associated with objectionable material,
as determined by Google.

Use of the Flutter trademarks that is not expressly permitted by these
guidelines is prohibited absent written permission from Google.

The official Flutter assets and further guidelines on representing the brand
can be found at [Representing the Flutter Brand]({{site.main-url}}/brand).

## General Rules That Govern the Use of the Flutter Trademarks

You are free to use the Flutter trademarks: (i) in connection with your
download and use of the Flutter SDK to build and develop
apps, (ii) in training materials (e.g., video tutorials, online publications,
etc.) that provide instructions or tips regarding how to use the Flutter
SDK to build and develop apps, and (iii) to show your support for
the use of the Flutter SDK by members of the developer community.

These guidelines do not restrict your right to use the "Flutter" name
in connection with descriptions of the Flutter SDK that would be
considered "fair use."  For example, you may use the "Flutter"
name to make truthful factual statements (e.g., "built with the Flutter
SDK") or to accurately describe a feature of the Flutter SDK.

You may use the Flutter trademarks on your personal website, personal
blog, or social media account to show your support for the Flutter SDK,
provided you do not use the Flutter trademarks in a way that
could confuse people into thinking that your site is an official Google
site or that Google has sponsored or endorsed your site. In the case of
websites or personal blogs, this means you should not use the Flutter
trademarks as the primary element on the webpage (e.g., in the masthead
of the webpage or the title of the blog). In the case of social media
accounts, this means you should not use the Flutter trademarks in the
background, in your profile image or in your social media username.

## Specific Rules for Proper Usage of the Flutter Trademarks

In addition to the general rules discussed above, below are specific
rules governing the proper use of the Flutter trademarks.

**DO:**

* Use the "Flutter" name as an adjective, never as a noun or verb,
  and never in the plural or possessive form.
* Use a generic term following the "Flutter" name, for example,
  "the Flutter SDK" or "the Flutter UI toolkit."
* Distinguish the "Flutter" name from the surrounding text in some way.
  Capitalize the first letter, capitalize or italicize the entire mark,
  place the mark in quotes, use a different type style or font for the mark.
* Use the trademark symbol <sup>TM</sup> for the first or most prominent
  time the "Flutter" name appears in text on your website or blog.
  Make sure to always use the <sup>TM</sup> symbol,
  not the <sup>&reg;</sup> symbol.
* Include the following text near the first or most prominent use of the
  Flutter marks on your website or blog: "Flutter and the related logo are
  trademarks of Google LLC. We are not endorsed by or affiliated with
  Google LLC."
* Keep some distance between the Flutter trademarks and any other trademarks,
  logos, or icons that are displayed on the webpage.

**DON'T:**

* Don't alter, distort, or modify the Flutter trademarks in any way.
  This includes varying the spelling of the "Flutter" name, or displaying
  the Flutter logo with color variations or unapproved visual elements.
* Don't combine the Google name with the "Flutter" name to form a unitary
  brand (e.g., don’t use the phrases "Google Flutter" or "Google’s Flutter").
  You may use the Google name in full text to accurately describe the
  Flutter SDK (e.g., "The Flutter SDK by Google").
* Don't register the Flutter trademarks or any trademarks, logos,
  or domain names that are confusingly similar to them.
* Don't incorporate the Flutter trademarks into your own product names,
  service names, trademarks, logos, or company names.
* Don't display the Flutter trademarks in a manner that is misleading,
  unfair, defamatory, infringing, libelous, disparaging, obscene or
  otherwise objectionable to Google.
* Don't use the Flutter trademarks on or in connection with the sale of
  any non-software goods or services (e.g., merchandise such as clothing,
  pens, and stickers).

## Community Use Exceptions

To allow for the use of the Flutter trademarks by the Flutter community,
below are specific exceptions to the rules described above:

1. Local Flutter user groups may: (i) use the "Flutter" name
   as part of their social media username in the following format:
   "Flutter + [name of country/city]" (e.g., "Flutter France"); and (ii)
   use the Flutter logo in the national colors of the country where the
   user group is based (e.g., for a user group based in France,
   the colors blue, white and red), provided the Flutter logo is otherwise
   unaltered.  Such social media accounts should include a disclaimer that
   clarifies that it is not an official Google account.

2. You may use the Flutter trademarks as part of the name of a newsletter
   or related community content (e.g., Flutter training courses,
   Flutter community forums) whose purpose is to promote the use of the
   Flutter SDK by members of the developer community.
   Where the Flutter trademarks are displayed on a website as part of a
   community site name, you should use the trademark symbol <sup>TM</sup>
   after the most prominent appearance of the "Flutter" name and include
   the following text: "Flutter and the related logo are trademarks of
   Google LLC.  We are not endorsed by or affiliated with Google LLC."
   Where the Flutter trademarks are displayed on a social media account
   as part of a community site name, you should include a disclaimer that
   clarifies that it is not an official Google account.

3. <b>[Unofficial Flutter Events]</b> You may use the Flutter trademarks as part of the name
   of a community event (e.g. conference), but please make sure to include the following disclaimer
   on the event website in a prominent and easy-to-see spot:  "Flutter and the related logo are trademarks of Google LLC.
   [Title of event] is not affiliated with or otherwise sponsored by Google LLC."
