src/docs/deployment/web.md, before:

---
title: Build and release a web app
description: How to prepare for and release a web app.
short-title: Web
---

During a typical development cycle,
you test an app using `flutter run -d chrome`
(for example) at the command line.
This builds a _debug_ version of your app.

This page helps you prepare a _release_ version
of your app and covers the following topics:

* [Minification](#minification)
* [Building the app for release](#building-the-app-for-release)
* [Deploying to the web](#deploying-to-the-web)


## Minification

Minification is handled for you when you
create a release build.

A debug build of a web app is not minified and
tree shaking has not been performed.

A profile build is not minified and tree shaking
has been performed.

A release build is both minified and tree shaking
has been performed.

## Building the app for release

Build the app for deployment using the
`flutter build web` command.
You can also choose which renderer to use
by using the `--web-renderer` option (See[Web renderers][]).
This generates the app, including the assets,
and places the files into the `/build/web`
directory of the project.

The release build of a simple app has the
following structure:

```none
/build/web
  assets
    AssetManifest.json
    FontManifest.json
    NOTICES
    fonts
      MaterialIcons-Regular.ttf
      <other font files>
    <image files>
  index.html
  main.dart.js
  main.dart.js.map
```

Launch a web server (for example,
`python -m http.server 8000`,
or by using the [dhttpd][] package),
and open the /build/web directory. Navigate to
`localhost:8000` in your browser
(given the python SimpleHTTPServer example)
to view the release version of your app.

## Embedding a Flutter app into an HTML page

You can embed a Flutter web app,
as you would embed other content,
in an [`iframe`][] tag of an HTML file.
In the following example, replace "URL"
with the location of your HTML page:

```html
<iframe src="URL"></iframe>
```

## Deploying to the web

When you are ready to deploy your app,
upload the release bundle
to Firebase, the cloud, or a similar service.
Here are a few possibilities, but there are
many others:

* [Firebase Hosting][]
* [GitHub Pages][]
* [Google Cloud Hosting][]

## PWA Support

As of release 1.20, the Flutter template for web apps includes support
for the core features needed for an installable, offline-capable PWA app.
Flutter-based PWAs can be installed in the same way as any other web-based
PWA; the settings signaling that your Flutter app is a PWA are provided by
`manifest.json`, which is produced by `flutter create` in the `web` directory.

PWA support remains a work in progress,
so please [give us feedback][] if you see something that doesn’t look right.

[dhttpd]: {{site.pub}}/packages/dhttpd
[Firebase Hosting]: https://firebase.google.com/docs/hosting
[GitHub Pages]: https://pages.github.com/
[give us feedback]: {{site.github}}/flutter/flutter/issues/new?title=%5Bweb%5D:+%3Cdescribe+issue+here%3E&labels=%E2%98%B8+platform-web&body=Describe+your+issue+and+include+the+command+you%27re+running,+flutter_web%20version,+browser+version
[Google Cloud Hosting]: https://cloud.google.com/solutions/smb/web-hosting/
[`iframe`]: https://html.com/tags/iframe/
[Web renderers]: /docs/development/tools/web-renderers

Commit message:

Adding some cross references to new docs

src/docs/deployment/web.md, after:

---
title: Build and release a web app
description: How to prepare for and release a web app.
short-title: Web
---

During a typical development cycle,
you test an app using `flutter run -d chrome`
(for example) at the command line.
This builds a _debug_ version of your app.

This page helps you prepare a _release_ version
of your app and covers the following topics:

* [Handling images on the web](#handling-images-on-the-web)
* [Choosing a web renderer](#choosing-a-web-renderer)
* [Minification](#minification)
* [Building the app for release](#building-the-app-for-release)
* [Deploying to the web](#deploying-to-the-web)


## Handling images on the web

The web supports the standard `Image` widget to display images.
However, because web browsers are built to run untrusted code safely,
there are certain limitations in what you can do with images compared
to mobile and desktop platforms.

For more information, see [Displaying images on the web][].

## Choosing a web renderer

By default, the `flutter build` and `flutter run` commands
use the `auto` choice for the web renderer. This means that
your app runs with the HTML renderer on mobile browsers and
CanvasKit on desktop browsers. This is our recommended combination
to optimize for the characteristics of each platform.

For more information, see [Web renderers][].

## Minification

Minification is handled for you when you
create a release build.

A debug build of a web app is not minified and
tree shaking has not been performed.

A profile build is not minified and tree shaking
has been performed.

A release build is both minified and tree shaking
has been performed.

## Building the app for release

Build the app for deployment using the
`flutter build web` command.
You can also choose which renderer to use
by using the `--web-renderer` option (See[Web renderers][]).
This generates the app, including the assets,
and places the files into the `/build/web`
directory of the project.

The release build of a simple app has the
following structure:

```none
/build/web
  assets
    AssetManifest.json
    FontManifest.json
    NOTICES
    fonts
      MaterialIcons-Regular.ttf
      <other font files>
    <image files>
  index.html
  main.dart.js
  main.dart.js.map
```

Launch a web server (for example,
`python -m http.server 8000`,
or by using the [dhttpd][] package),
and open the /build/web directory. Navigate to
`localhost:8000` in your browser
(given the python SimpleHTTPServer example)
to view the release version of your app.

## Embedding a Flutter app into an HTML page

You can embed a Flutter web app,
as you would embed other content,
in an [`iframe`][] tag of an HTML file.
In the following example, replace "URL"
with the location of your HTML page:

```html
<iframe src="URL"></iframe>
```

## Deploying to the web

When you are ready to deploy your app,
upload the release bundle
to Firebase, the cloud, or a similar service.
Here are a few possibilities, but there are
many others:

* [Firebase Hosting][]
* [GitHub Pages][]
* [Google Cloud Hosting][]

## PWA Support

As of release 1.20, the Flutter template for web apps includes support
for the core features needed for an installable, offline-capable PWA app.
Flutter-based PWAs can be installed in the same way as any other web-based
PWA; the settings signaling that your Flutter app is a PWA are provided by
`manifest.json`, which is produced by `flutter create` in the `web` directory.

PWA support remains a work in progress,
so please [give us feedback][] if you see something that doesn’t look right.

[dhttpd]: {{site.pub}}/packages/dhttpd
[Displaying images on the web]: /docs/development/platform-integration/web-images
[Firebase Hosting]: https://firebase.google.com/docs/hosting
[GitHub Pages]: https://pages.github.com/
[give us feedback]: {{site.github}}/flutter/flutter/issues/new?title=%5Bweb%5D:+%3Cdescribe+issue+here%3E&labels=%E2%98%B8+platform-web&body=Describe+your+issue+and+include+the+command+you%27re+running,+flutter_web%20version,+browser+version
[Google Cloud Hosting]: https://cloud.google.com/solutions/smb/web-hosting/
[`iframe`]: https://html.com/tags/iframe/
[Web renderers]: /docs/development/tools/web-renderers
