src/docs/development/tools/vs-code.md, before:

---
title: Visual Studio Code
short-title: VS Code
description: How to develop Flutter apps in Visual Studio Code.
---

<ul class="nav nav-tabs" id="ide" role="tablist">
  <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="nav-link" href="/docs/development/tools/android-studio" role="tab" aria-selected="false">Android Studio and IntelliJ</a>
  </li>
  <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="nav-link active" role="tab" aria-selected="true">Visual Studio Code</a>
  </li>
</ul>

## Installation and setup

Follow the [Set up an editor][] instructions to
install the Dart and Flutter extensions
(also called plugins).

### Updating the extension {#updating}

Updates to the extensions are shipped on a regular basis.
By default, VS Code automatically updates extensions when
updates are available.

To install updates manually:

 1. Click the Extensions button in the Side Bar.
 1. If the Flutter extension is shown with an available update,
    click the update button and then the reload button.
 1. Restart VS Code.

## Creating projects

There are a couple ways to create a new project.

### Creating a new project

To create a new Flutter project from the Flutter
starter app template:

 1. Open the Command Palette
    (`Ctrl`+`Shift`+`P` (`Cmd`+`Shift`+`P` on macOS)).
 1. Select the **Flutter: New Project** command and press `Enter`.
 1. Enter your desired **Project name**.
 1. Select a **Project location**.

### Opening a project from existing source code

To open an existing Flutter project:

 1. Click **File > Open** from the main IDE window.
 1. Browse to the directory holding your existing
    Flutter source code files.
 1. Click **Open**.

## Editing code and viewing issues

The Flutter extension performs code analysis that
enables the following:

* Syntax highlighting
* Code completions based on rich type analysis
* Navigating to type declarations
  (**Go to Definition** or `F12`),
  and finding type usages
  (**Find All References** or `Shift`+`F12`)
* Viewing all current source code problems
  (**View > Problems** or `Ctrl`+`Shift`+`M`
  (`Cmd`+`Shift`+`M` on macOS))
  Any analysis issues are shown in the Problems pane:<br>
  ![Problems pane]({% asset tools/vs-code/problems.png @path %}){:.mw-100.pt-1}

## Running and debugging

{{site.alert.note}}
  You can debug your app in a couple of ways.

  * Using [DevTools][], a suite of debugging and profiling
    tools that run in a browser. DevTools replaces the previous
    browser-based profiling tool, Observatory, and includes
    functionality previously only available to Android Studio
    and IntelliJ, such as the Flutter inspector.
  * Using VS Code's built-in debugging features,
    such as setting breakpoints.

  The instructions below describe features available in VS Code.
  For information on using launching DevTools, see
  [Running DevTools from VS Code][] in the [DevTools][] docs.
{{site.alert.end}}

Start debugging by clicking **Run > Start Debugging**
from the main IDE window, or press `F5`.

### Selecting a target device

When a Flutter project is open in VS Code,
you should see a set of Flutter specific entries in the status bar,
including a Flutter SDK version and a
device name (or the message **No Devices**):<br>
![VS Code status bar][]{:.mw-100.pt-1}

{{site.alert.note}}
  * If you do not see a Flutter version number or device info,
    your project might not have been detected as a Flutter project.
    Ensure that the folder that contains your `pubspec.yaml` is
    inside a VS Code **Workspace Folder**.
  * If the status bar reads **No Devices**, Flutter has not been
    able to discover any connected iOS or Android devices or simulators.
    You need to connect a device, or start a simulator or emulator,
    to proceed.
{{site.alert.end}}

The Flutter extension automatically selects the last device connected.
However, if you have multiple devices/simulators connected, click
**device** in the status bar to see a pick-list
at the top of the screen. Select the device you want to use for
running or debugging.

{{site.alert.note}}
  If you want to try running your app on the web,
  but the **Chrome (web)** target doesn't appear in the
  list of targets, make sure you've enabled web, as
  described in [Building a web application][].
{{site.alert.end}}

### Run app without breakpoints

 1. Click **Run > Start Without Debugging** in the
    main IDE window, or press `Ctrl`+`F5`.
    The status bar turns orange to show you are in a debug session.<br>
    ![Debug console]({% asset tools/vs-code/debug_console.png @path %}){:.mw-100.pt-1}

### Run app with breakpoints

 1. If desired, set breakpoints in your source code.
 1. Click **Run > Start Debugging** in the main IDE window,
    or press `F5`.

    * The left **Debug Sidebar** shows stack frames and variables.
    * The bottom **Debug Console** pane shows detailed logging output.
    * Debugging is based on a default launch configuration.
      To customize, click the cog at the top of the
      **Debug Sidebar** to create a `launch.json` file.
      You can then modify the values.

## Fast edit and refresh development cycle

Flutter offers a best-in-class developer cycle enabling you
to see the effect of your changes almost instantly with the
_Stateful Hot Reload_ feature. See
[Using hot reload](hot-reload) for details.

## Advanced debugging

### Debugging visual layout issues

During a debug session,
several additional debugging commands are added to the
[Command Palette][] and to the [Flutter inspector][].
When space is limited, the icon is used as the visual
version of the label.

<dl markdown="1">
<dt markdown="1"> **Toggle Baseline Painting** ![Baseline painting icon]({% asset tools/devtools/paint-baselines-icon.png @path %}){:width="20px"}</dt>
<dd>Causes each RenderBox to paint a line at each of its baselines.</dd>
<dt markdown="1"> **Toggle Repaint Rainbow** ![Repaint rainbow icon]({% asset tools/devtools/repaint-rainbow-icon.png @path %}){:width="20px"}</dt>
<dd>Shows rotating colors on layers when repainting.</dd>
<dt markdown="1">**Toggle Slow Animations** ![Slow animations icon]({% asset tools/devtools/slow-animations-icon.png @path %}){:width="20px"}</dt>
<dd>Slows down animations to enable visual inspection.</dd>
<dt markdown="1">**Toggle Debug Mode Banner** ![Debug mode banner icon]({% asset tools/devtools/debug-mode-banner-icon.png @path %}){:width="20px"}</dt>
<dd>Hides the debug mode banner even when running a debug build.</dd>
</dl>

### Debugging external libraries

By default, debugging an external library is disabled
in the Flutter extension. To enable:

1. Select **Settings > Extensions > Dart Configuration**.
2. Check the `Debug External Libraries` option.

## Editing tips for Flutter code

If you have additional tips we should share, [let us know][]!

### Assists & quick fixes

Assists are code changes related to a certain code identifier.
A number of these are available when the cursor is placed on a
Flutter widget identifier, as indicated by the yellow lightbulb icon.
The assist can be invoked by clicking the lightbulb, or by using the
keyboard shortcut `Ctrl`+`.` (`Cmd`+`.` on Mac), as illustrated here:

![Code assists]({% asset tools/vs-code/assists.png @path %}){:width="467px"}

Quick fixes are similar,
only they are shown with a piece of code has an error and they
can assist in correcting it.

**Wrap with new widget assist**
: This can be used when you have a widget that you want to wrap
  in a surrounding widget, for example if you want to wrap a
  widget in a `Row` or `Column`.

**Wrap widget list with new widget assist**
: Similar to the assist above, but for wrapping an existing
  list of widgets rather than an individual widget.

**Convert child to children assist**
: Changes a child argument to a children argument,
  and wraps the argument value in a list.

**Convert StatelessWidget to StatefulWidget assist**
: Changes the implementation of a `StatelessWidget` to that of a `StatefulWidget`,
  by creating the `State` class and moving the code there.

### Snippets

Snippets can be used to speed up entering typical code structures.
They are invoked by typing their prefix,
and then selecting from the code completion window:
![Snippets]({% asset tools/vs-code/snippets.png @path %}){:width="700px"}

The Flutter extension includes the following snippets:

* Prefix `stless`: Create a new subclass of `StatelessWidget`.
* Prefix `stful`: Create a new subclass of `StatefulWidget`
  and its associated State subclass.
* Prefix `stanim`: Create a new subclass of `StatefulWidget`,
  and its associated State subclass including a field initialized
  with an `AnimationController`.

You can also define custom snippets by executing
**Configure User Snippets** from the [Command Palette][].

### Keyboard shortcuts

**Hot reload**
: During a debug session, clicking the **Hot Reload** button on the
  **Debug Toolbar**, or pressing `Ctrl`+`F5`
  (`Cmd`+`F5` on macOS) performs a hot reload.

  Keyboard mappings can be changed by executing the
  **Open Keyboard Shortcuts** command from the [Command Palette][].

### Hot reload vs. hot restart

Hot reload works by injecting updated source code files into the
running Dart VM (Virtual Machine). This includes not only
adding new classes, but also adding methods and fields to
existing classes, and changing existing functions.
A few types of code changes cannot be hot reloaded though:

* Global variable initializers
* Static field initializers
* The `main()` method of the app

For these changes, fully restart your application without
having to end your debugging session. To perform a hot restart,
run the **Flutter: Hot Restart** command from the
[Command Palette][], or press `Ctrl`+`Shift`+`F5`(`Cmd`+`Shift`+`F5` on macOS).

## Troubleshooting

### Known issues and feedback

All known bugs are tracked in the issue tracker:
[Dart and Flutter extensions GitHub issue tracker][issue tracker].

We welcome feedback,
both on bugs/issues and feature requests.
Prior to filing new issues:

* Do a quick search in the issue trackers to see if the
  issue is already tracked.
* Make sure you are [up to date](#updating) with the most recent
  version of the plugin.

When filing new issues, include [flutter doctor][] output.

[Building a web application]: /docs/get-started/web
[Command Palette]: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/userinterface#_command-palette
[DevTools]: /docs/development/tools/devtools
[flutter doctor]: /docs/resources/bug-reports/#provide-some-flutter-diagnostics
[Flutter inspector]: /docs/development/tools/devtools/inspector
[let us know]: {{site.github}}/flutter/website/issues/new
[issue tracker]: {{site.github}}/Dart-Code/Dart-Code/issues
[Running DevTools from VS Code]: /docs/development/tools/devtools/vscode
[Set up an editor]: /docs/get-started/editor?tab=vscode
[VS Code status bar]: {% asset tools/vs-code/device_status_bar.png @path %}

Commit message:

Update vs-code.md (#4860)
* Update vs-code.md

* Update vs-code.md

src/docs/development/tools/vs-code.md, after:

---
title: Visual Studio Code
short-title: VS Code
description: How to develop Flutter apps in Visual Studio Code.
---

<ul class="nav nav-tabs" id="ide" role="tablist">
  <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="nav-link" href="/docs/development/tools/android-studio" role="tab" aria-selected="false">Android Studio and IntelliJ</a>
  </li>
  <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="nav-link active" role="tab" aria-selected="true">Visual Studio Code</a>
  </li>
</ul>

## Installation and setup

Follow the [Set up an editor][] instructions to
install the Dart and Flutter extensions
(also called plugins).

### Updating the extension {#updating}

Updates to the extensions are shipped on a regular basis.
By default, VS Code automatically updates extensions when
updates are available.

To install updates manually:

 1. Click the Extensions button in the Side Bar.
 1. If the Flutter extension is shown with an available update,
    click the update button and then the reload button.
 1. Restart VS Code.

## Creating projects

There are a couple ways to create a new project.

### Creating a new project

To create a new Flutter project from the Flutter
starter app template:

 1. Open the Command Palette
    (`Ctrl`+`Shift`+`P` (`Cmd`+`Shift`+`P` on macOS)).
 1. Select the **Flutter: New Project** command and press `Enter`.
 1. Enter your desired **Project name**.
 1. Select a **Project location**.

### Opening a project from existing source code

To open an existing Flutter project:

 1. Click **File > Open** from the main IDE window.
 1. Browse to the directory holding your existing
    Flutter source code files.
 1. Click **Open**.

## Editing code and viewing issues

The Flutter extension performs code analysis that
enables the following:

* Syntax highlighting
* Code completions based on rich type analysis
* Navigating to type declarations
  (**Go to Definition** or `F12`),
  and finding type usages
  (**Find All References** or `Shift`+`F12`)
* Viewing all current source code problems
  (**View > Problems** or `Ctrl`+`Shift`+`M`
  (`Cmd`+`Shift`+`M` on macOS))
  Any analysis issues are shown in the Problems pane:<br>
  ![Problems pane]({% asset tools/vs-code/problems.png @path %}){:.mw-100.pt-1}

## Running and debugging

{{site.alert.note}}
  You can debug your app in a couple of ways.

  * Using [DevTools][], a suite of debugging and profiling
    tools that run in a browser. DevTools replaces the previous
    browser-based profiling tool, Observatory, and includes
    functionality previously only available to Android Studio
    and IntelliJ, such as the Flutter inspector.
  * Using VS Code's built-in debugging features,
    such as setting breakpoints.

  The instructions below describe features available in VS Code.
  For information on using launching DevTools, see
  [Running DevTools from VS Code][] in the [DevTools][] docs.
{{site.alert.end}}

Start debugging by clicking **Run > Start Debugging**
from the main IDE window, or press `F5`.

### Selecting a target device

When a Flutter project is open in VS Code,
you should see a set of Flutter specific entries in the status bar,
including a Flutter SDK version and a
device name (or the message **No Devices**):<br>
![VS Code status bar][]{:.mw-100.pt-1}

{{site.alert.note}}
  * If you do not see a Flutter version number or device info,
    your project might not have been detected as a Flutter project.
    Ensure that the folder that contains your `pubspec.yaml` is
    inside a VS Code **Workspace Folder**.
  * If the status bar reads **No Devices**, Flutter has not been
    able to discover any connected iOS or Android devices or simulators.
    You need to connect a device, or start a simulator or emulator,
    to proceed.
{{site.alert.end}}

The Flutter extension automatically selects the last device connected.
However, if you have multiple devices/simulators connected, click
**device** in the status bar to see a pick-list
at the top of the screen. Select the device you want to use for
running or debugging.

{{site.alert.note}}
  If you want to try running your app on the web,
  but the **Chrome (web)** target doesn't appear in the
  list of targets, make sure you've enabled web, as
  described in [Building a web application][].
{{site.alert.end}}

### Run app without breakpoints

 1. Click **Run > Start Without Debugging** in the
    main IDE window, or press `Ctrl`+`F5`.
    The status bar turns orange to show you are in a debug session.<br>
    ![Debug console]({% asset tools/vs-code/debug_console.png @path %}){:.mw-100.pt-1}

### Run app with breakpoints

 1. If desired, set breakpoints in your source code.
 1. Click **Run > Start Debugging** in the main IDE window,
    or press `F5`.

    * The left **Debug Sidebar** shows stack frames and variables.
    * The bottom **Debug Console** pane shows detailed logging output.
    * Debugging is based on a default launch configuration.
      To customize, click the cog at the top of the
      **Debug Sidebar** to create a `launch.json` file.
      You can then modify the values.
      
      
### Run app in debug, profile, or release mode

Flutter offers many different build modes to run your app in. 
You can read more about them in [Flutter's build modes][].

 1. Open the `launch.json` file in VS Code.
    
    If you do not have a `launch.json` file, go to 
    the **Run** view in VS Code and click **create a launch.json file**.
 1. In the `configurations` section, change the `flutterMode` property to 
 the build mode you want to target. 
     * For example, if you want to run in debug mode, 
     your `launch.json` might look like this: 
     ```json
      "configurations": [
       {
         "name": "Flutter",
         "request": "launch",
         "type": "dart",
         "flutterMode": "debug"
       }
     ]
     ```
 1. Run the app through the **Run** view. 


## Fast edit and refresh development cycle

Flutter offers a best-in-class developer cycle enabling you
to see the effect of your changes almost instantly with the
_Stateful Hot Reload_ feature. See
[Using hot reload](hot-reload) for details.

## Advanced debugging

### Debugging visual layout issues

During a debug session,
several additional debugging commands are added to the
[Command Palette][] and to the [Flutter inspector][].
When space is limited, the icon is used as the visual
version of the label.

<dl markdown="1">
<dt markdown="1"> **Toggle Baseline Painting** ![Baseline painting icon]({% asset tools/devtools/paint-baselines-icon.png @path %}){:width="20px"}</dt>
<dd>Causes each RenderBox to paint a line at each of its baselines.</dd>
<dt markdown="1"> **Toggle Repaint Rainbow** ![Repaint rainbow icon]({% asset tools/devtools/repaint-rainbow-icon.png @path %}){:width="20px"}</dt>
<dd>Shows rotating colors on layers when repainting.</dd>
<dt markdown="1">**Toggle Slow Animations** ![Slow animations icon]({% asset tools/devtools/slow-animations-icon.png @path %}){:width="20px"}</dt>
<dd>Slows down animations to enable visual inspection.</dd>
<dt markdown="1">**Toggle Debug Mode Banner** ![Debug mode banner icon]({% asset tools/devtools/debug-mode-banner-icon.png @path %}){:width="20px"}</dt>
<dd>Hides the debug mode banner even when running a debug build.</dd>
</dl>

### Debugging external libraries

By default, debugging an external library is disabled
in the Flutter extension. To enable:

1. Select **Settings > Extensions > Dart Configuration**.
2. Check the `Debug External Libraries` option.

## Editing tips for Flutter code

If you have additional tips we should share, [let us know][]!

### Assists & quick fixes

Assists are code changes related to a certain code identifier.
A number of these are available when the cursor is placed on a
Flutter widget identifier, as indicated by the yellow lightbulb icon.
The assist can be invoked by clicking the lightbulb, or by using the
keyboard shortcut `Ctrl`+`.` (`Cmd`+`.` on Mac), as illustrated here:

![Code assists]({% asset tools/vs-code/assists.png @path %}){:width="467px"}

Quick fixes are similar,
only they are shown with a piece of code has an error and they
can assist in correcting it.

**Wrap with new widget assist**
: This can be used when you have a widget that you want to wrap
  in a surrounding widget, for example if you want to wrap a
  widget in a `Row` or `Column`.

**Wrap widget list with new widget assist**
: Similar to the assist above, but for wrapping an existing
  list of widgets rather than an individual widget.

**Convert child to children assist**
: Changes a child argument to a children argument,
  and wraps the argument value in a list.

**Convert StatelessWidget to StatefulWidget assist**
: Changes the implementation of a `StatelessWidget` to that of a `StatefulWidget`,
  by creating the `State` class and moving the code there.

### Snippets

Snippets can be used to speed up entering typical code structures.
They are invoked by typing their prefix,
and then selecting from the code completion window:
![Snippets]({% asset tools/vs-code/snippets.png @path %}){:width="700px"}

The Flutter extension includes the following snippets:

* Prefix `stless`: Create a new subclass of `StatelessWidget`.
* Prefix `stful`: Create a new subclass of `StatefulWidget`
  and its associated State subclass.
* Prefix `stanim`: Create a new subclass of `StatefulWidget`,
  and its associated State subclass including a field initialized
  with an `AnimationController`.

You can also define custom snippets by executing
**Configure User Snippets** from the [Command Palette][].

### Keyboard shortcuts

**Hot reload**
: During a debug session, clicking the **Hot Reload** button on the
  **Debug Toolbar**, or pressing `Ctrl`+`F5`
  (`Cmd`+`F5` on macOS) performs a hot reload.

  Keyboard mappings can be changed by executing the
  **Open Keyboard Shortcuts** command from the [Command Palette][].

### Hot reload vs. hot restart

Hot reload works by injecting updated source code files into the
running Dart VM (Virtual Machine). This includes not only
adding new classes, but also adding methods and fields to
existing classes, and changing existing functions.
A few types of code changes cannot be hot reloaded though:

* Global variable initializers
* Static field initializers
* The `main()` method of the app

For these changes, fully restart your application without
having to end your debugging session. To perform a hot restart,
run the **Flutter: Hot Restart** command from the
[Command Palette][], or press `Ctrl`+`Shift`+`F5`(`Cmd`+`Shift`+`F5` on macOS).

## Troubleshooting

### Known issues and feedback

All known bugs are tracked in the issue tracker:
[Dart and Flutter extensions GitHub issue tracker][issue tracker].

We welcome feedback,
both on bugs/issues and feature requests.
Prior to filing new issues:

* Do a quick search in the issue trackers to see if the
  issue is already tracked.
* Make sure you are [up to date](#updating) with the most recent
  version of the plugin.

When filing new issues, include [flutter doctor][] output.

[Building a web application]: /docs/get-started/web
[Command Palette]: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/userinterface#_command-palette
[DevTools]: /docs/development/tools/devtools
[flutter doctor]: /docs/resources/bug-reports/#provide-some-flutter-diagnostics
[Flutter inspector]: /docs/development/tools/devtools/inspector
[Flutter's build modes]: /docs/testing/build-modes
[let us know]: {{site.github}}/flutter/website/issues/new
[issue tracker]: {{site.github}}/Dart-Code/Dart-Code/issues
[Running DevTools from VS Code]: /docs/development/tools/devtools/vscode
[Set up an editor]: /docs/get-started/editor?tab=vscode
[VS Code status bar]: {% asset tools/vs-code/device_status_bar.png @path %}
